Under conditions of high humidity , the rate of evaporation of sweat from the skin decreases .	With a higher humidity , the rate of evaporation is less .
The lack of oxygen above 2,400 metres ( 8,000 ft ) can cause serious illnesses such as altitude sickness , high altitude pulmonary edema , and high altitude cerebral edema .	This can cause illnesses such as altitude sickness , High altitude pulmonary edema ( fluid in the lungs ) , and High altitude cerebral edema ( fluid in the brain , causing headaches and confusion ) .
The human body can adapt to high altitude by breathing faster , having a higher heart rate , and adjusting its blood chemistry .	The human body can deal with high altitude by breathing faster , having a higher heart rate , and changing the blood itself to have more red blood cells that can carry oxygen .
For example , hemoglobin and myoglobin contain an iron center coordinated to the nitrogen atoms of a porphyrin ring ; magnesium is the center of a chlorin ring in chlorophyll .	For example , hemoglobin and myoglobin contain an iron center coordinated to the nitrogen atoms of a porphyrin ring ; magnesium is the center of a chlorin ring in chlorophyll .
Schistosomiasis , caused by one genus of trematodes , is the second-most devastating of all human diseases caused by parasites , surpassed only by malaria .	Schistosomiasis , caused by one genus of trematodes , is the second most devastating of all human diseases caused by parasites , surpassed only by malaria .
In 1921 , Buck 's mother died of a tropical disease , sprue , and shortly afterward her father moved in .	Buck 's mother died in 1921 of a disease called sprue .
In 1920 , the Bucks had a daughter , Carol , afflicted with phenylketonuria .	In 1920 , they had a daughter .
The stretch of DNA transcribed into an RNA molecule is called a transcription unit and encodes at least one gene .	The stretch of DNA that is transcribed into an RNA molecule is called a transcription unit .
Arm-onset patients may experience difficulty with tasks requiring manual dexterity such as buttoning a shirt , writing , or turning a key in a lock .	Other limb onset patients first see the effects of the disease on a hand or arm as they have a difficult time with simple tasks requiring hand dexterity , or ability to move small things , such as buttoning a shirt , writing , or turning a key in a lock .
Other presenting symptoms include trouble swallowing , cramping , or stiffness of affected muscles ; muscle weakness affecting an arm or a leg ; and\/or slurred and nasal speech .	The earliest symptoms may include twitching , cramping , or stiffness of muscles ; muscle weakness affecting an arm or a leg ; slurred and strange-sounding nasal speech ; or having a difficult time chewing or swallowing .
The disorder causes muscle weakness and atrophy throughout the body due to the degeneration of the upper and lower motor neurons .	The disorder causes muscle weakness and muscle shrinking ( atrophy ) throughout the body .
Unable to function , the muscles weaken and exhibit atrophy .	Unable to function , the muscles gradually weaken and waste away ( atrophy ) .
About 75 % of people contracting the disease experience `` limb onset '' ALS , i.e. , first symptoms in the arms or legs .	About 75 % of people have limb onset ALS .
These patients first notice difficulty speaking clearly or swallowing .	These patients first have difficulty speaking clearly .
Patients with the leg onset form may experience awkwardness when walking or running or notice that they are tripping or stumbling , often with a `` dropped foot '' which drags gently along the ground .	In some of these cases , symptoms first affect one of the legs , and patients have awkwardness when walking or running or they notice that they are tripping or stumbling more often .
Susceptible animals include cattle , water buffalo , sheep , goats , pigs , antelope , deer , and bison .	Foot-and-mouth disease virus causes the disease which can infect domestic animals such as cattle , pigs , sheep , goats and deer .
North America and Australia have been free of FMD for many years .	While the disease is widespread around the world , North America , Central America , Australia , New Zealand , Japan , Chile , and many countries in Europe are considered free of FMD .
Just as humans may spread the disease by carrying the virus on their clothes and bodies , animals that are not susceptible to the disease may still aid in spreading it .	However , humans can spread FMD by carrying the virus on their clothes and body .
Such contact can also lead to more mundane infections from common bacteria and viruses found in , around and secreted from the genital regions .	Such contact can also lead to more mundane infections from common bacteria and viruses found in , around and secreted from the genital regions .
There is an increased risk of STI transmission if the receiving partner has wounds on his genitals , or if the giving partner has wounds or open sores on or in his or her mouth , or bleeding gums .	If the receiving partner has wounds on their genitals , or if the giving partner has wounds or open sores on or in their mouth , or bleeding gums , this poses an increased risk of STD transmission .
These wounds , even when they are microscopic , increase the chances of contracting STIs that can be transmitted orally under these conditions .	These wounds , even when they are microscopic , increase the chances of contracting STDs that can be transmitted orally under these conditions .
Chlamydia , human papillomavirus ( HPV ) , gonorrhea , herpes , hepatitis ( multiple strains ) , and other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs\/STDs ) , can be transmitted through oral sex .	Diseases such as Chlamydia , human papillomavirus ( HPV ) , gonorrhea , herpes , hepatitis ( multiple strains ) , and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) , as well as viruses such as HIV , can be transmitted through oral sex .
Brushing the teeth , flossing , undergoing dental work soon before or after giving fellatio can also increase the risk of transmission , because all of these activities can cause small scratches in the lining of the mouth .	Brushing the teeth , flossing , undergoing dental work , or eating crunchy foods such as potato crisps relatively soon before or after giving fellatio can also increase the risk of transmission , because all of these activities can cause small scratches in the lining of the mouth .
Any sexual exchange of bodily fluids with a person infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS , poses a risk of infection .	Any kind of direct contact with body fluids of a person infected with HIV , the virus that causes AIDS , poses a risk of infection .
Risk of STI infection , however , is generally considered significantly lower for oral sex than for vaginal or anal sex , with HIV transmission considered the lowest risk with regard to oral sex .	The risk from most of these types of infection , however , is generally considered far lower than that associated with vaginal or anal sex .
Human fertility depends on factors of nutrition , sexual behavior , culture , instinct , endocrinology , timing , economics , way of life , and emotions .	Human fertility depends on factors of nutrition , sexual behavior , culture , instinct , endocrinology , timing , economics , way of life , and emotions .
In postmenarchal girls , about 80 % of the cycles are anovulatory in the first year after menarche , 50 % in the third and 10 % in the sixth year .	In postmenarchal girls , about 80 % of the cycles are anovulatory in the first year after menarche , 50 % in the third and 10 % in the sixth year .
As a measure , `` fertility rate '' is the number of offspring born per mating pair , individual or population .	As a measure , fertility rate is the number of children born per couple , person or population .
According to a computer simulation run by Henri Leridon , PhD , an epidemiologist with the French Institute of Health and Medical Research , of women trying to get pregnant , without using fertility drugs or in vitro fertilization Studies of actual couples trying to conceive have come up with higher results : one 2004 study of 770 European women found that 82 % of 35-to-39-year-old women conceived within a year , while another in 2013 of 2,820 Danish women saw 78 % of 35-to-40-year-olds conceive within a year .	According to Henri Leridon , PhD , an epidemiologist with the French Institute of Health and Medical Research , of women trying to get pregnant , without using fertility drugs or in vitro fertilization : The use of fertility drugs and\/or in vitro fertilization can increase the chances of becoming pregnant at a later age .
The average age of menarche in the United States is about 12.5 years .	In the United States the average age of menarche ( first period ) is about 12.5 years. , However , in most girls , menarche does not signal that ovulation has occurred .
Hyssop is also used , usually in combination with other herbs such as liquorice , in herbal remedies , especially for lung conditions .	Hyssop is also used , usually in combination with other herbs such as liquorice , in herbal remedies , especially for lung conditions .
Skin allergy testing ( such as patch testing ) is available for certain foods and venoms .	Skin allergy tests ( such as patch tests ) are available for certain foods and venoms .
It typically causes a number of symptoms including an itchy rash , throat swelling , and low blood pressure .	Anaphylaxis typically has a number of symptoms including an itchy rash , throat swelling , and low blood pressure .
Gastrointestinal symptoms may include crampy abdominal pain , diarrhea , and vomiting .	Symptoms from the stomach and intestines may include crampy abdominal pain , diarrhea , and vomiting ( throwing up ) .
Rarely very low blood pressure may be the only sign of anaphylaxis .	In rare cases , very low blood pressure may be the only sign of anaphylaxis .
Methylene blue has been used in those not responsive to other measures due to its presumed effect of relaxing smooth muscle .	Methylene blue has been used in those not responsive to other measures because it may relax smooth muscle .
People with atopic diseases such as asthma , eczema , or allergic rhinitis are at high risk of anaphylaxis from food , latex , and radiocontrast but not from injectable medications or stings .	People with atopic diseases such as asthma , eczema , or allergic rhinitis have a high risk of anaphylaxis from food , latex , and radiocontrast agents .
Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that is rapid in onset and may cause death .	Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that begins suddenly and may cause death .
One study in children found that 60 % had a history of previous atopic diseases , and of those who die from anaphylaxis more than 90 % have asthma .	One study in children with anaphylaxis found that 60 % had a history of previous atopic diseases .
Worldwide , 0.05-2 % of the population is estimated to have anaphylaxis at some point in life , and rates appear to be increasing .	Worldwide , about 0.05-2 % of people have anaphylaxis at some point in their lives .
Other features may include a runny nose and swelling of the conjunctiva .	Other features may include a runny nose and swelling of the mucous membrane on the surface of the eye and eyelid ( conjunctiva ) .
Skin testing is available to confirm penicillin allergies , but is not available for other medications .	Skin tests can confirm penicillin allergies , but there are no skin tests for other medications .
While a fast heart rate caused by low blood pressure is more common , a Bezold-Jarisch reflex has been described in 10 % of cases , where a slow heart rate is associated with low blood pressure .	( The combination of a slow heart rate and low blood pressure is known as Bezold-Jarisch reflex ) .
Pseudoanaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions are a type of anaphylaxis that does not involve an allergic reaction but is due to direct mast cell degranulation .	Pseudoanaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions are older names for anaphylaxis that is not due to an allergic reaction , but is due to direct injury to mast cells ( mast cell degranulation ) .
These include agents such as contrast medium , opioids , temperature ( hot or cold ) , and vibration .	Agents that can damage these cells include contrast medium for X-rays , opioids , temperature ( hot or cold ) , and vibration .
Anaphylactic shock is associated with systemic vasodilation that causes low blood pressure which is by definition 30 % lower than the person 's baseline or below standard values .	Anaphylactic shock happens when blood vessels get wider throughout most of the body ( systemic vasodilation ) , which causes low blood pressure that is at least 30 % lower than the person 's normal blood pressure or 30 % below standard values .
Intravenous epinephrine however has been associated both with dysrhythmia and myocardial infarction .	Intravenous epinephrine , however , has been linked to irregular heartbeats ( dysrhythmia ) and heart attacks ( myocardial infarction ) .
It can sometimes be difficult to distinguish anaphylaxis from asthma , syncopy , and panic attacks .	It can sometimes be difficult to distinguish anaphylaxis from asthma , fainting due to lack of oxygen ( syncopy ) , and panic attacks .
In the immunologic mechanism , immunoglobulin E ( IgE ) binds to the antigen ( the foreign material that provokes the allergic reaction ) .	When anaphylaxis is caused by an immune response , immunoglobulin E ( IgE ) binds to the foreign material that starts the allergic reaction ( the antigen ) .
Non-immunologic mechanisms involved substances that directly cause the degranulation of mast cells and basophils .	When anaphylaxis is not caused by in immune response , the reaction is due to an agent that directly damages mast cells and basophils , causing them to release histamine and other substances that are usually associated with an allergic reaction ( degranulation ) .
The most common areas affected include : skin ( 80-90 % ) , respiratory ( 70 % ) , gastrointestinal ( 30-45 % ) , heart and vasculature ( 10-45 % ) , and central nervous system ( 10-15 % ) with usually two or more being involved .	The most common areas affected include : skin ( 80-90 % ) , lungs and breathing pathways ( 70 % ) , stomach and intestines ( 30-45 % ) , heart and blood vessels ( 10-45 % ) , and central nervous system ( 10-15 % ) .
Those with underlying coronary disease are at greater risk of cardiac effects from anaphylaxis .	People who already have heart disease are at greater risk of cardiac affects from anaphylaxis .
The wheezing is typically caused by spasms of the bronchial muscles while stridor is related to upper airway obstruction secondary to swelling .	Low-pitched breathing is typically due to spasms of the muscles in the lower part of the airway ( bronchial muscles ) .
On a mechanistic level , anaphylaxis is caused by the release of mediators from certain types of white blood cells triggered either by immunologic or non-immunologic mechanisms .	Anaphylaxis is due to the release of mediator proteins from certain types of white blood cells .
The precise location of storage is unknown , but the temporal cortex has been proposed as a likely candidate .	Exactly where is unknown , but the temporal cortex has been proposed as a likely candidate .
The cause of primary spontaneous pneumothorax is unknown , but established risk factors include male sex , smoking , and a family history of pneumothorax .	The cause of spontaneous pneumothorax is not known .
This condition is a medical emergency that can cause steadily worsening oxygen shortage and low blood pressure .	Pneumothorax is a medical emergency .
Thomas died of food poisoning while working at Penny 's Pleasure Inn in Detroit , Michigan .	Thomas died of food poisoning while working at Penny 's Pleasure Inn in Detroit , Michigan .
Squamous cell cancer arises from the cells that line the upper part of the esophagus .	Squamous cell cancer rises from the cells that line the upper part of the esophagus .
Adenocarcinoma arises from glandular cells that are present at the junction of the esophagus and stomach .	Adenocarcinoma rises from glandular cells that are present at the lining of the esophagus and stomach .
Esophageal cancer ( or oesophageal cancer ) is malignancy of the esophagus .	Esophageal cancer ( or oesophageal cancer ) is a type of cancer which is found in the esophagus .
Pain creates a withdrawal reflex , while itch leads to a scratch reflex .	Pain creates a reflex withdrawal while itch leads to a scratch reflex .
Itch ( Latin : pruritus ) is a sensation that causes the desire or reflex to scratch .	Itch ( Latin : pruritus ) is an unpleasant sensation that leads to the desire or reflex to scratch .
In larger towns and cities , such as London , common diseases arising from lack of sanitation included smallpox , measles , malaria , typhus , diphtheria , Scarlet fever , and chickenpox .	In larger towns and cities , such as London , common diseases arising from lack of sanitation included smallpox , measles , malaria , typhus , diphtheria , Scarlet fever , and chickenpox .
Outbreaks of the Black Death pandemic occurred in 1498 , 1535 , 1543 , 1563 , 1589 and 1603 .	Outbreaks of the Black Death pandemic occurred in 1498 , 1535 , 1543 , 1563 , 1589 and 1603 .
The reason for the speedy spread of the disease was the increase of rats infected by fleas carrying the disease .	The reason for the speedy spread of the disease was the increase of rats infected by fleas carrying the disease ) The food consumed by the dinvery rich in this period consisted largely of venison , and often of blackbirds and larks .
Following the Black Death and the agricultural depression of the late 15th century , population growth began to increase .	Following the Black Death and the agricultural depression of the late 14th century , population grew bigger again .
He moved with his assistant Martha to Cold Spring Harbor , New York , in 1950 to join the Carnegie Institution of Washington 's Department of Genetics , where he performed the famous Hershey-Chase experiment with Martha Chase in 1952 .	There he performed the famous Hershey-Chase blender experiment with Martha Chase in 1952 .
Shanty towns have high rates of crime , suicide , drug use and disease .	Residents of shanty towns often have poor health , lack education , suffer from high levels of crime and suicide , and have shorter life expectancy .
She attained a scholarship to the Italia Conti Academy , but after an early eating disorder , she gave up acting at 13 and attended Hampstead School .	She won a scholarship to the Italia Conti Academy .
Haemophilia B ( factor IX deficiency ) occurs in around 1 in about 20,000-34 ,000 male births .	Haemophilia B happens in about 1 in every 20,000-34 ,000 male births .
Haemophilia A ( clotting factor VIII deficiency ) is the most common form of the disorder , present in about 1 in 5,000-10 ,000 male births .	There are 3 types of hemophilia : Haemophilia A happens in about 1 in 5,000-10 ,000 male births .
A hemophiliac does not bleed more intensely than a person without it , but can bleed for a much longer time .	They do not bleed more than a normal person , but they bleed for much longer .
Eisenstein 's health was also failing : he was struck by a heart attack during the making of this picture , and soon died of another at the age of 50 .	Eisenstein 's health was also failing .
However , in infants , HIV\/AIDS patients , and others with weakened immunity , infection can cause serious and occasionally fatal illness ( toxoplasmosis ) .	But in infants , HIV\/AIDS patients , and others with weakened immunity , infection can cause serious and occasionally fatal illness ( toxoplasmosis ) .
Although mild , flu-like symptoms occasionally occur during the first few weeks following exposure , infection with T. gondii generally produces no symptoms in healthy human adults .	Although mild , flu-like symptoms occasionally occur during the first few weeks , infection with T. gondii generally produces no symptoms in healthy human adults .
Infection in humans and other warm-blooded animals can occur Although T. gondii can infect , be transmitted by , and asexually reproduce within humans and virtually all other warm-blooded animals , the parasite can sexually reproduce only within the intestines of members of the cat family ( felids ) .	p77 Infection in humans and other warm-blooded animals can occur The parasite can only sexually reproduce in the intestines of members of the cat family ( felids ) .
In humans , it is one of the most common parasites ; serological studies estimate that up to a third of the global population has been exposed to and may be chronically infected with T. gondii , although infection rates differ significantly from country to country .	Blood test show that up to a third of the world population has been or is infected with T. gondii .
Based on evidence of osteoarthritis in the lumbar vertebrae , eburnation , and severe wear on the teeth with pulp exposure , it seems likely that LM3 was quite old ( around 50 years old ) when he died .	Based on this , it is likely that LM3 was quite old ( around 50 years old ) when he died .
Special dishes are also served on recovery from serious illness for example when someone makes a full recovery from Chicken Pox , it is common to make an offering and make `` mitho lolo '' , a sweet griddle-roasted flatbread : the dough is wheat flour mixed with oil ( or ghee ) and sugar syrup flavored with ground cardamom .	If someone gets chicken pox and after it is gone , it is common to make an offering and make ` mitho lolo ' .
There is evidence for human behavioral learning prenatally , in which habituation has been observed as early as 32 weeks into gestation , indicating that the central nervous system is sufficiently developed and primed for learning and memory to occur very early on in development .	There is evidence for human behavioral learning prenatally , in which habituation has been observed as early as 32 weeks into gestation , indicating that the central nervous system is sufficiently developed and primed for learning and memory to occur very early on in development .
There may not be enough trained health workers or monetary resources to provide even a basic level of medical care and disease prevention .	In the developing world , there may not be enough trained health workers or monetary resources to provide a basic level of medical care and disease prevention .
From the beginnings of human civilization , it was recognized that polluted water and lack of proper waste disposal spread communicable diseases ( theory of miasma ) .	From the beginning , human civilization recognized that polluted water and lack of proper waste disposal spread communicable diseases .
The ancient Chinese medical doctors developed the practice of variolation following a smallpox epidemic around 1000 BC .	The Chinese developed the practice of variolation following a smallpox epidemic around 1000 BC .
Public health plays an important role in disease prevention efforts in both the developing world and in developed countries , through local health systems and non-governmental organizations .	Public health plays an important role in disease prevention efforts in the developing world and in developed countries , through local health systems and through international non-governmental organizations .
Burning parts of cities resulted in much greater benefit , since it destroyed the rodent infestations .	During the 14th century Black Death in Europe , burning parts of cities resulted in benefit , since it destroyed the rodent infestations .
Many diseases are preventable through simple , non-medical methods .	Many diseases are preventable through simple , non-medical methods .
The development of quarantine in the medieval period helped mitigate the effects of other infectious diseases .	The development of quarantine in the medieval period restricted effects of other infectious diseases .
In other cases , treating a disease or controlling a pathogen can be vital to preventing its spread to others , such as during an outbreak of infectious disease , or contamination of food or water supplies .	In outbreaks of an infectious disease , treating a disease may be vital to preventing it in others .
Dramatic increases in average life span in the late 19th century and 20th century , is widely credited to public health achievements , such as vaccination programs and control of many infectious diseases including polio , diphtheria , yellow fever and smallpox ; effective health and safety policies such as road traffic safety and occupational safety ; improved family planning ; tobacco control measures ; and programs designed to decrease non-communicable diseases by acting on known risk factors such as a person 's background , lifestyle and environment .	The increase in average life span in the 20th century is credited to public health achievements , such as vaccination programs and control of infectious diseases , effective safety policies of motor-vehicle and occupational safety , improved family planning , chlorination of drinking water , smoke-free measures , and programs on decreasing chronic disease such as cancer , heart disease and more physical exercise .
Public health communications programs , vaccination programs , and distribution of condoms are examples of common public health measures .	Public health intervention prevents rather than treats a disease through surveillance of cases and promotes healthy behaviors such as hand washing , vaccination programs and distribution of condoms .
Within weeks , Village residents quickly organized into activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being arrested .	Within weeks , Village residents quickly organized into activist groups to concentrate efforts on establishing places for gays and lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation without fear of being arrested .
Sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS ) also known as cot death or crib death is the sudden death of an infant that is not predicted by medical history and remains unexplained after a thorough forensic autopsy and detailed death scene investigation .	Sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS ) is the sudden and unexpected death of a human baby which is unexplained even after an autopsy and investigation .
In her first year of medical studies at the University of Sydney she suffered dermatitis from surgical soap and was told to abandon her dreams of becoming a medical doctor .	In her first year of medical studies at the University of Sydney she suffered dermatitis .
Toll-like receptors are now counted among the key molecules that alert the immune system to the presence of microbial infections .	Toll-like receptors are now counted among the key molecules that alert the immune system to the presence of microbial infections .
In 1996 , Toll was found by Jules A. Hoffmann and his colleagues to have an essential role in the fly 's immunity to fungal infection , which it achieved by activating the synthesis of antimicrobial peptides .	In 1996 , Toll was found by Jules A. Hoffmann and his colleagues to have an essential role in the fly 's immunity to fungal infection .
Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) are a class of proteins that play a key role in the innate immune system as well as the digestive system .	Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) are proteins which act in the innate immune system and the digestive system .
Carl Ransom Rogers ( January 8 , 1902 - February 4 , 1987 ) was an influential American psychologist and among the founders of the humanistic approach ( or client-centered approach ) to psychology .	Carl Ransom Rogers ( January 8 , 1902 - February 4 , 1987 ) , was a 20th century influential humanistic psychologist .
Breaking with his former beliefs , the Professor admits that any peasant woman could give birth to a genius and that eugenics are therefore a waste of time .	Breaking with his former beliefs , the Professor admits that any peasant woman could give birth to a genius and that eugenics are a waste of time .
However , he is soon terrified to see the Professor bringing home a human brain and removing the pituitary gland ... The novel has been interpreted both as a satire on the Communist attempts to create a New Soviet man and as a criticism of eugenics .	However , he is soon terrified to see the Professor bringing home a human brain and removing the pituitary gland ...
As Bormenthal assists , the Professor trepans Sharik 's skull and gives him a human pituitary gland .	As Bormenthal assists , the Professor gives him a human pituitary gland and human testicles .
In 1914 Adams 's father died of a stroke .	His father died in 1914 and Adams was brought up by his mother .
The scales around the ears , lips , chin , and soles of the feet may have three or more sensory plaques .	The scales around its ears , lips , chin , and bottoms of the feet may have three or more of these connections .
The absolute number of tuberculosis cases has been decreasing since 2006 , and new cases have decreased since 2002 .	The number of tuberculosis cases has been decreasing since 2006 , and new cases have decreased since 2002 .
Tuberculosis typically attacks the lungs , but can also affect other parts of the body .	The disease usually attacks the lungs , but it can also affect other parts of the body .
One third of the world 's population is thought to have been infected with M. tuberculosis , with new infections occurring in about 1 % of the population each year .	Experts believe that one third of the world population is infected with M. tuberculosis .
The rates of tuberculosis in different areas varies across the globe ; about 80 % of the population in many Asian and African countries tests positive in tuberculin tests , while only 5-10 % of the United States population tests positive .	About eighty percent of the population in many Asian and African countries test positive in tuberculin tests , but only five to ten percent of the United States .
Totally drug-resistant TB is resistant to all currently used drugs .	There is a form of tuberculosis that is resistant to all drugs .
Tuberculosis , MTB , or TB ( short for tubercle bacillus ) , in the past also called phthisis , phthisis pulmonalis , or consumption , is a common , and in many cases fatal , infectious disease caused by various strains of mycobacteria , usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis .	TB is caused by several types of mycobacteria , usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis .
Unlike short-lived neutrophils , macrophages survive longer in the body up to a maximum of several months .	Unlike short-lived neutrophils , macrophages survive longer in the body , up to several months .
Sunderland , a main trading port at the time , was the first British town to be struck with the ` Indian cholera ' epidemic .	It was the first British town to be affected by ` Indian cholera ' epidemic .
Local government was divided between the three parishes ( Holy Trinity Church , Sunderland , St. Michael 's , Bishopwearmouth , and St. Peter 's , Monkwearmouth ) and when cholera broke out in 1831 , the `` select vestrymen '' , as the church councilmen were called , were unable to cope with the epidemic .	When cholera broke out in 1831 , the `` select vestrymen '' , as the church councillors were called , did not know what to do about the epidemic .
Once at Richmond , Madison began drafting the Report , though he was delayed by a weeklong battle with dysentery .	Once at Richmond , Madison began drafting the Report , though he was delayed by a weeklong battle with dysentery .
Extreme shortness in humans with proportional body parts usually has a hormonal cause , such as growth-hormone deficiency , once called pituitary dwarfism .	Extreme shortness , but with body parts of normal proportions , may be caused by growth hormone deficiency , once known as pituitary dwarfism .
Disorders causing dwarfism are often classified by proportionality .	There are more than 200 other conditions which may cause dwarfism .
Koalas can be subject to pathogens like Chlamydiaceae bacteria , which can cause keratoconjunctivitis , urinary tract infection and reproductive tract infection .	The disease can cause blindness , pneumonia , urinary tract infections and reproductive tract infections .
Reports circulated for years that Hemingway had had her breasts enlarged to play the role of Stratten , but during a 2007 appearance on the late-night talk and variety show , Fashionably Late with Stacy London , she said she had had the surgery before Star 80 .	During a 2007 appearance on the late-night talk and variety show , Fashionably Late with Stacy London , she said she had the surgery before Star 80 .
Capablanca entered the match with no technical or physical preparation , while Alekhine got himself into good physical condition , and had thoroughly studied Capablanca 's play .	Capablanca entered the match with no technical or physical preparation , while Alekhine got himself into good physical condition , and had thoroughly studied Capablanca 's play .
Capablanca 's high blood pressure was not correctly diagnosed and treated until after the AVRO tournament , and caused him to lose his train of thought towards the end of playing sessions .	Capablanca 's high blood pressure was not correctly diagnosed and treated until after the AVRO tournament , and caused him to lose his train of thought towards the end of playing sessions .
During these triumphs Capablanca began to suffer symptoms of high blood pressure .	During these triumphs Capablanca began to experience debilitating symptoms of hypertension .
The serous membrane covering the heart and lining the mediastinum is referred to as the pericardium , the serous membrane lining the thoracic cavity and surrounding the lungs is referred to as the pleura , and that lining the abdominopelvic cavity and the viscera is referred to as the peritoneum .	The serous membrane covering the heart and lining the mediastinum is called the pericardium , the serous membrane lining the thoracic cavity and surrounding the lungs is called the pleura , and that lining the abdominopelvic cavity and the viscera is called the peritoneum .
Serous membranes line and enclose several body cavities , known as serous cavities , where they secrete a lubricating fluid which reduces friction from muscle movement .	They secrete a lubricating fluid which reduces friction from muscle movement .
Other notable 17th-century outbreaks were the Italian Plague ( 1629-31 ) ; the Great Plague of Seville ( 1647-52 ) ; the Great Plague of London ( 1665-66 ) ; and the Great Plague of Vienna ( 1679 ) .	Later outbreaks include the Italian Plague of 1629-1631 , the Great Plague of London ( 1665-1666 ) , the Great Plague of Vienna ( 1679 ) , the Great Plague of Marseille in 1720-1722 and the 1771 plague in Moscow .
There is some controversy over the identity of the disease , but in its virulent form , after the Great Plague of Marseille in 1720-22 , the Great Plague of 1738 ( which hit Eastern Europe ) , and the Russian plague of 1770-1772 , it seems to have gradually disappeared from Europe .	There is some controversy over the identity of the disease , but in its virulent form seems to have disappeared from Europe in the 18th century .
The 14th-century eruption of the Black Death had a drastic effect on Europe 's population , irrevocably changing the social structure , and resulted in widespread persecution of minorities such as Jews , foreigners , beggars , and lepers ( see Persecutions ) .	It was a serious blow to the Roman Catholic Church and resulted in widespread persecution of minorities such as Jews , Muslims , foreigners , beggars and lepers .
The palate is divided into two parts , the anterior bony hard palate , and the posterior fleshy soft palate ( or velum ) .	The palate is divided into two parts , the anterior bony hard palate , and the posterior fleshy soft palate or velum .
It separates the oral cavity from the nasal cavity .	It separates the oral cavity ( mouth ) from the nasal cavity .
In hair , this results in the hair falling out and being replaced by a new one .	In hair , this causes the hair to fall out and it is replaced by a new one .
By 1915 , gangrene had set in and her entire right leg was amputated ; she was required to use a wheelchair for several months .	By 1915 , gangrene had set in and her entire right leg was amputated , meaning she was in a wheelchair for several months .
Sarah Bernhardt died from uremia following kidney failure in 1923 .	On 26 March 1923 , Bernhardt died of uremia following kidney failure .
After graduation , he contracted tuberculosis , causing him to move to the Crimean Peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea in 1855 .	After graduation , tuberculosis caused him to move to the Crimean Peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea in 1855 .
He died of a heart attack in 1968 and was honored with a memorial service at Westminster Abbey , London .	He died from a heart attack in 1968 .
The development of a sufficiently powerful microscope by Anton van Leeuwenhoek in 1675 provided visual evidence of living particles consistent with a germ theory of disease .	The development of a sufficiently powerful microscope by Anton van Leeuwenhoek in 1675 provided visual evidence of living particles consistent with a germ theory of disease .
The study subjects should be at risk of the outcome under investigation at the beginning of the cohort study ; this usually means that they should be disease free when the cohort study starts .	The study subjects should be at risk of the outcome under investigation at the beginning of the cohort study ; this usually means that they should be disease free when the cohort study starts .
Disinfection did not become widely practiced until British surgeon Joseph Lister ` discovered ' antiseptics in 1865 in light of the work of Louis Pasteur .	Unfortunately , disinfection did not become widely practiced until British surgeon Joseph Lister ` discovered ' antiseptics in 1865 in light of the work of Louis Pasteur .
In the middle of the 16th century , a doctor from Verona named Girolamo Fracastoro was the first to propose a theory that these very small , unseeable , particles that cause disease were alive .	Italian doctor from Verona named Girolamo Fracastoro was the first to propose a theory that these very small , unseeable , particles that cause disease were alive .
In 1543 he wrote a book De contagione et contagiosis morbis , in which he was the first to promote personal and environmental hygiene to prevent disease .	In 1543 , he in his book De contagione et contagiosis morbis was the first to promote personal and environmental hygiene to prevent disease .
Snow used chlorine in an attempt to clean the water and removed the handle ; this ended the outbreak .	He used chlorine in an attempt to clean the water and had the handle removed , thus ending the outbreak .
The distinction between `` epidemic '' and `` endemic '' was first drawn by Hippocrates , to distinguish between diseases that are `` visited upon '' a population ( epidemic ) from those that `` reside within '' a population ( endemic ) .	He has also drawn the distinction between ` epidemic ' and ` endemic ' to distinguish between diseases that are ` visited upon ' a population ( epidemic ) from those that ` reside within ' a population ( endemic ) .
Another important pioneer was Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis , who in 1847 brought down infant mortality at a Vienna hospital by instituting a disinfection procedure .	In 1847 Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis brought down infant mortality at a Vienna hospital by instituting a disinfection procedure .
The term epidemiology is now widely applied to cover the description and causation of not only epidemic disease , but of disease in general , and even many non-disease health-related conditions , such as high blood pressure and obesity .	The term has expanded considerably in scope since to cover the description and causation of not only epidemic disease , but of disease in general , and even many non-disease health-related conditions , such as high blood pressure and obesity .
Case control studies select subjects based on their disease status .	Cohort studies select subjects based on their exposure status .
Epidemiological studies can only go to prove that an agent could have caused , but not that it did cause , an effect in any particular case : In United States law , epidemiology alone can not prove that a causal association does not exist in general .	Epidemiological studies can only go to prove that an agent could have caused disease in population , but not that it did cause , an effect in any particular case .
The Greek physician Hippocrates , known as the father of medicine , sought a logic to sickness ; he is the first person known to have examined the relationships between the occurrence of disease and environmental influences .	Hippocrates is viewed as the father of epidemiology as the first who has examined the relationships between the occurrence of disease and environmental influences .
Epidemiologists also study the interaction of diseases in a population , a condition known as a syndemic .	Epidemiologists also study the interaction of diseases in a population .
Dr. John Snow is famous for his investigations into the causes of the 19th century cholera epidemics , and is also known as the father of ( modern ) epidemiology .	Dr. John Snow investigated into the causes of the 19th Century Cholera epidemics .
Epidemiologists rely on other scientific disciplines like biology to better understand disease processes , statistics to make efficient use of the data and draw appropriate conclusions , social sciences to better understand proximate and distal causes , and engineering for exposure assessment .	Epidemiologists rely on biology ( to better understand disease processes ) , biostatistics ( to design and understand good studies ) , Geographic Information Science ( to store data and map disease patterns ) and social science disciplines ( to understand `` big picture '' causes ) .
He provided statistical evidence for many theories on disease , and also refuted some widespread ideas on them .	In 1662 John Graunt used analysis of the mortality rolls in London before the Great Plague to provide statistical evidence for many theories on disease , and refute widespread ideas on them .
Manasa ( Bengali : মনসা , Manasha ) also Mansa Devi is a Hindu folk goddess of snakes , worshipped mainly in Bengal and other parts of North and northeastern India , chiefly for the prevention and cure of snakebite and also for fertility and prosperity .	Manasa ( Bengali : মনসা , Manasha ) also known as Manasa Devi is the Hindu goddess of snakes and poison .
He is considered a founding father of plant pathology ( phytopathology ) as well as the founder of modern mycology .	He is considered a founding father of plant pathology ( phytopathology ) as well as the founder of modern mycology .
De Bary also studied the formation of lichens which are the result of an association between a fungus and an alga .	De Bary studied the formation of lichens , the association between a fungus and an alga .
Finally , doctors discovered that Vergeer had an Vascular myelopathy around her spinal cord .	The doctors also found that Vergeer had an Vascular myelopathy .
At the age of ten , he was hospitalized with a gastrointestinal condition and had to remain at the hospital for a prolonged time .	At the age of ten , Gackt was hospitalized with a gastrointestinal tract and had to remain at the hospital for a prolonged time .
Common special needs include learning disabilities , communication disabilities , emotional and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and developmental disabilities .	Special needs include speech or hearing difficulties , emotional and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and developmental disorders .
Anna Moffo spent the last years of her life in New York City , where she died of a stroke at age 73 , following a decade-long battle with breast cancer .	Moffo died in New York City of a stroke after a decade long battle with breast cancer at the age of 73 .
In 1904 , at the age of 24 , Keller graduated from Radcliffe , becoming the first deaf blind person to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree .	She was the first deaf and blind person to earn a Bachelors of Arts degree .
At 19 months old , she contracted an illness described by doctors as `` an acute congestion of the stomach and the brain '' , which might have been scarlet fever or meningitis .	Some people say that it was scarlet fever or meningitis .
The foreskin is attached to the glans by a frenulum .	The foreskin is attached to the penis by the frenulum , but it can move .
In male human anatomy , the foreskin is a double-layered fold of smooth muscle tissue , blood vessels , neurons , skin , and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .	The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the glans penis .
The outside of the foreskin is a continuation of the skin on the shaft of the penis , but the inner foreskin is a mucous membrane like the inside of the eyelid or the mouth .	The outside of the foreskin is like normal skin but the inside of the foreskin is a membrane like the inside of an eyelid or mouth .
A stroke , sometimes referred to as a cerebrovascular accident ( CVA ) , cerebrovascular insult ( CVI ) , or colloquially brain attack is the loss of brain function due to a disturbance in the blood supply to the brain .	A stroke , or cerebrovascular accident ( CVA ) , is the rapid loss of brain function ( s ) due to disturbance in the blood supply to the brain .
A stroke is a medical emergency and can cause permanent neurological damage or death .	It can cause permanent damage .
As a result , the affected area of the brain can not function normally , which might result in an inability to move one or more limbs on one side of the body , failure to understand or formulate speech , or a vision impairment of one side of the visual field .	Symptoms might include : hemiplegia ( an inability to move one or more limbs on one side of the body ) , aphasia ( inability to understand or use speech ) , or an inability to see one side of the visual field .
In fact , the cause of 50 % of preterm births is never determined .	In fact , the rate of preterm births in the United States has increased 30 % in the past two decades .
On April 30 , 1983 Muddy Waters died in his sleep from heart failure , at his home in Westmont , Illinois .	On April 30 , 1983 Muddy Waters died in his sleep from Heart Failure , at his home in Westmont , Illinois .
Douglas developed prostate cancer in 1990 , but after surgery he was cancer-free and remained in good health until almost the end of his life .	He came down with prostate cancer in 1990 , but after surgery he was cancer-free .
This is thought to indicate that doping was not the only reason East Germany was so successful ( and more successful than West Germany in particular ) in the Olympics , with professional training conditions also being significant .	This shows that doping was not the only reason East Germany did so well in the Olympics .
Even as clinical psychology was growing , working with issues of serious mental distress remained the domain of psychiatrists and neurologists .	Clinical psychology is the study in psychology of mental disorders .
After the searchers had given up hope of finding them , Browne and Goodman finally arrived in Plymouth quite cold , forest-bitten , tired and hungry , having survived their first experience alone in the New England forest .	Browne and Goodman finally arrived in Plymouth quite cold , forest-bitten , tired and hungry .
Neurologist Oliver Sacks states that chimpanzees and other animals show no similar appreciation of rhythm yet posits that human affinity for rhythm is fundamental , so that a person 's sense of rhythm can not be lost ( e.g. by stroke ) .	Neurologist Oliver Sacks says that chimpanzees and other animals do not have a sense of rhythm .
Fat ( or lack of it ) is a political issue , some of whom see their overweight condition as a form of self-acceptance .	Some men regard their overweight condition as a form of self-acceptance .
Many claim discrimination has increased within the Bear community , as some men who self-identify as `` Bears '' or `` musclebears '' do not welcome higher-bodyfat men ( see chub ) at their events .	Some bears and `` muscle bears '' do not welcome higher-bodyfat men at their events .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , and chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , among others , is a type of obstructive lung disease characterized by chronically poor airflow .	Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , and chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , is a collection of diseases which make breathing gradually more difficult .
The Duke of Burgundy , who dearly loved his wife and who had stayed by her side throughout the fatal illness , contracted the disease and died on 18 February , six days after her .	The Duke of Burgundy , who dearly loved his wife and who had stayed by her side throughout the fatal illness , contracted the disease and died on 18 February , six days after her at the Château de Marly .
In February 1712 , his wife contracted measles and died on February 12 .	In February 1712 , his wife contracted measles and died on the 12th of that month .
There are two ducts , connecting the left and right epididymis to the ejaculatory ducts in order to move sperm .	They connect the left and right epididymis to the ejaculatory ducts in order to move sperm .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ) , is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; these vasa transport sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory ducts in anticipation of ejaculation .	The vas deferens is also called the ductus deferens , ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ) .
It is one of the three fields of behavior analysis .	He is often believed to be one of the founders of Applied Behavior Analysis .
Huxley , Alan Hodgkin and John Eccles jointly won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine `` for their discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane '' .	Huxley won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his experimental and mathematical work with Alan Hodgkin on the basis of nerve action potentials .
People with circadian rhythm sleep disorders are unable to sleep and wake at the times required for normal work , school , and social needs .	There are four circadian rhythm sleep disorders of the intrinsic type .
Circadian rhythm sleep disorders ( CRSD ) are a family of sleep disorders affecting , among other things , the timing of sleep .	Cause The delayed sleep phase type of circadian rhythm sleep disorder is marked by a delay of the sleep-wake cycle as it relates to the demands of society .
In January 1925 doctors realized that a potentially deadly diphtheria epidemic was poised to sweep through Nome 's young people .	In January 1925 , doctors realized that a diphtheria epidemic was likely to sweep through Nome 's young people .
Sullivan , still believing his ailment to be yet another complication from a long-standing battle with ulcers , died five weeks later , on October 13 , 1974 , at New York 's Lenox Hill Hospital .	He died five weeks later , on October 13 , 1974 , at New York 's Lenox Hill Hospital .
Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults ( LADA ) is a condition in which type 1 DM develops in adults .	Other types of diabetes include but are not limited to : Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults ( LADA ) Maturity onset diabetes of the young ( MODY )
Type 2 diabetes is the most common type .	Type 1 diabetes happens most of the time in younger people , however it can occur in adults , although this is much less common .
Gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) resembles type 2 diabetes in several respects , involving a combination of relatively inadequate insulin secretion and responsiveness .	Gestational diabetes mellitus is like Type 2 diabetes .
The term `` type 1 diabetes '' has replaced several former terms , including childhood-onset diabetes , juvenile diabetes , and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( IDDM ) .	Type 2 diabetes mellitus is an illness very different from Type 1 diabetes .
Ariel Sharon ( Hebrew : אריאל שרון , Arabic : أرئيل شارون , Ariʼēl Sharōn , also known by his diminutive Arik , אַריק , born Ariel Scheinermann , אריאל שיינרמן ; February 26 , 1928 - January 11 , 2014 ) was an Israeli politician and general , who served as the 11th Prime Minister of Israel until he was incapacitated by a stroke .	Ariel Sharon ( February 27 , 1928 - January 11 , 2014 ) was a Israeli politician .
Important psychiatric advances , particularly under the founder 's grandson , also called Ludwig Binswanger , especially in the development of existential psychotherapy , were made at the sanatorium .	Important psychiatric discoveries , particularly under the founder 's grandson 's control , especially in the development of existential psychotherapy , were made at the sanatorium .
When blood pressure is stated for medical purposes , it is usually written as a seeming `` ratio '' of systolic to diastolic pressure ; for example : 120\/80 mmHg .	When blood pressure is measured for medical purposes , diastolic pressure is the second number in the `` ratio '' of systolic to diastolic pressure ; for example : 120\/80 .
The other component of blood pressure is systolic pressure , which refers to the highest arterial pressure during each heart beat .	The highest arterial pressure happens when the heart muscle contracts , and is called systolic pressure .
During ventricular diastole , the pressure in the ( left and right ) ventricles drops from the peak that it reaches in systole .	During ventricular diastole , the pressure in the ( left and right ) ventricles drops .
Diastole \/ daɪˈæstəliː \/ is the period of time when the heart refills with blood after systole ( contraction ) .	Diastole ( pronounced \/ daɪˈæstəliː \/ ) is the time during a heart beat when the heart fills with blood after a contraction .
When Chilton confronted the crowd , he was struck in the head by a large cobblestone , and was knocked unconscious .	When Chilton tried to speak to the crowd , he was struck in the head by a large cobblestone , and was knocked unconscious .
There are now effective vaccines against anthrax , and some forms of the disease respond well to antibiotic treatment .	There is also a vaccine against it .
Fearing for his life , he feigned madness and was placed under house arrest .	Fearing for his life , he pretended to be mad , and was placed under house arrest .
The cilia move the mucus down the nasal cavity to the pharynx , where it can be swallowed .	The cilia move the mucus down the nasal cavity to the pharynx , where it can be swallowed .
The nasal cavity is divided in two by a vertical fin called the nasal septum .	The nasal cavity is divided in two by a vertical fin called the nasal septum .
The nasal cavity ( or nasal fossa ) is a large air filled space above and behind the nose in the middle of the face .	The nasal cavity ( or nasal fossa ) is a large air filled space above and behind the nose in the middle of the face .
The nasal cavity is enclosed by the nasal bone above .	The nasal cavity is covered by the nasal bone .
Cilia and mucus along the inside wall of the nasal cavity trap and remove dust and pathogens from the air as it flows through the nasal cavity .	Cilia ( small hairs ) and mucus along the inside wall of the nasal cavity trap and remove dust and germs from the air as it flows through the nasal cavity .
There 's nothing more depressing than a high schooler with a bald spot . ''	There 's nothing more sad than a high schooler with a bald spot . ''
Primary colors are not a fundamental property of light but are related to the physiological response of the eye to light .	Primary colors are not a fundamental property of light but are related to the physiological response of the eye to light ( the way the eye works ) .
After a heart attack in 2001 , Burnside 's doctor advised him to stop drinking ; Burnside did , but he reported that change left him unable to play .	After a heart attack in 2001 , Burnside 's doctor advised him to stop drinking ; Burnside did , but said that change stopped him from playing .
Treponema pallidum is a spirochaete bacterium with subspecies that cause treponemal diseases such as syphilis , bejel , pinta , and yaws .	There are different kinds of Treponema pallidum , which cause diseases like syphilis , bejel , pinta and yaws .
The presence of IgM in the blood of the host is used to test for acute infection , whereas IgG indicates an infection sometime in the past .	The presence of IgM in the blood of the host is used to test for acute infection , whereas IgG indicates an infection sometime in the past .
Immune responses can also be produced by vaccines , which confer an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection .	Immune responses can also be produced by vaccines , which confer an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection .
Viral infections in animals provoke an immune response that usually eliminates the infecting virus .	Viral infections in animals provoke an immune response that usually eliminates the infecting virus .
Not all virus infections produce a protective immune response in this way .	Not all virus infections produce a protective immune response .
However , some viruses including those that cause AIDS and viral hepatitis evade these immune responses and result in chronic infections .	However , some viruses including those causing AIDS and viral hepatitis evade these immune responses and result in chronic infections .
They are susceptible to antiviral drugs that inhibit the reverse transcriptase enzyme , e.g. zidovudine and lamivudine .	They are susceptible to antiviral drugs that inhibit the reverse transcriptase enzyme .
When the adaptive immune system of a vertebrate encounters a virus , it produces specific antibodies that bind to the virus and often render it non-infectious .	When it meets a virus , it produces specific antibodies that bind to the virus and render it non-infectious .
This comprises cells and other mechanisms that defend the host from infection in a non-specific manner .	This has cells and other mechanisms which defend the host from any infection .
When such a virus infects a cell , it releases its RNA molecule or molecules , which immediately bind to a protein complex called a dicer that cuts the RNA into smaller pieces .	When such a virus infects a cell , it releases its RNA molecule .
Examples of the second type are the Hepadnaviridae , which includes Hepatitis B virus .	Examples of the second type are the Hepadnaviridae , which includes Hepatitis B virus .88 \/ 9 The body 's first line of defense against viruses is the innate immune system .
Other viruses , called neurotropic viruses , are disseminated by neural spread where the immune system may be unable to reach them .	Other viruses , called neurotropic viruses , move along nerves to places the immune system can not reach .
Bacteria , like plants , have strong cell walls that a virus must breach to infect the cell .	The viruses are released and are then able to infect other cells .
This may be due to a lowered immunity in general ( diabetes , steroid use , HIV infection , age ) or because the host 's immune system does not have a B cell capable of generating antibodies to that antigen .	This may be due to a lowered immunity in general ( diabetes , steroid use , HIV infection , age ) or because the host 's immune system does not have a B cell capable of generating antibodies to that antigen .
Pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies have little incentive to develop vaccines for these diseases , because there is little revenue potential .	Pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies have little incentive to develop vaccines for these diseases , because there is little revenue potential , the financial and other risks are great .
Vaccines do not guarantee complete protection from a disease .	Vaccines do not guarantee complete protection from a disease .
Even if the host develops antibodies , the human immune system is not perfect and in any case the immune system might still not be able to defeat the infection immediately .	Even if the host develops antibodies , the immune system might still not be able to defeat the infection .
One challenge in vaccine development is economic : Many of the diseases most demanding a vaccine , including HIV , malaria and tuberculosis , exist principally in poor countries .	The diseases most demanding a vaccine , HIV , malaria and tuberculosis , exist principally in poor countries .
Beside the active vaccine itself , the following excipients are commonly present in vaccine preparations : Many vaccines need preservatives to prevent serious adverse effects such as Staphylococcus infection , which in one 1928 incident killed 12 of 21 children inoculated with a diphtheria vaccine that lacked a preservative .	Absence of any preservative in vaccine may result in adverse effects , such as Staphylococcus infection that , in one 1928 incident , killed 12 of 21 children inoculated with a diphtheria vaccine that lacked a preservative .
Although the benefits of preventing suffering and death from serious infectious diseases greatly outweigh the risks of rare adverse effects following immunization , disputes have arisen over the morality , ethics , effectiveness , and safety of vaccination .	Although the benefits of using vaccines in preventing suffering and death from infectious diseases greatly outweigh the risks of rare adverse effects following administration of vaccines , disputes have arisen over the morality , ethics , effectiveness , safety of using vaccines or that vaccine safety studies are inadequate .
Vaccines can be prophylactic ( example : to prevent or ameliorate the effects of a future infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen ) , or therapeutic ( e.g. , vaccines against cancer are also being investigated ; see cancer vaccine ) .	Vaccines can be prophylactic ( e.g. to make the effects of a future infection by any natural pathogen less dangerous or stop them completely ) , or therapeutic ( e.g. vaccines against cancer ) .
A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing microorganism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe , its toxins or one of its surface proteins .	A vaccine often contains something like a germ that has been weakened or killed or the germ 's toxins .
Examples include the viral diseases yellow fever , measles , rubella , and mumps , and the bacterial disease typhoid .	In the 20th century vaccines were introduced against diphtheria , measles , mumps , and rubella .
It can be an irritant to people with respiratory conditions such as asthma or bronchitis .	It can be very painful to people with respiratory conditions such as asthma or bronchitis .
This included a large medical bill for treatment of their gonorrhea and $ 21,000 for the accidental destruction of his uninsured car , which they borrowed .	This included a large medical bill for treatment of their gonorrhea and $ 21,000 for the accidental destruction of his uninsured car , which they borrowed .
During this period , however , Kiedis and Slovak had both developed serious drug addictions , often abandoning the band , each other , and their significant others for days on end .	During this time , Kiedis and Slovak had problems with drugs .
In his books Strength and How to Obtain It and Sandow 's System of Physical Training , Sandow laid out specific prescriptions of weights and repetitions in order to achieve his ideal proportions .	In his books Strength and How to Obtain It and Sandow 's System of Physical Training , Sandow laid out specific prescriptions of weights and repetitions in order to achieve his ideal proportions .
Sandow built his physique to the exact proportions of his Grecian Ideal , and is considered the father of modern bodybuilding , as one of the first athletes to intentionally develop his musculature to predetermined dimensions .	Sandow built his physique to the exact proportions of his Grecian Ideal , and is considered the ` father of modern bodybuilding , as one of the first athletes to intentionally develop his musculature to pre-determined dimensions .
Eugen Sandow ( April 2 , 1867 - October 14 , 1925 ) , born Friedrich Wilhelm Müller , was a German pioneering bodybuilder known as the `` father of modern bodybuilding '' .	Eugen Sandow ( April 2 , 1867 - October 14 , 1925 ) , born Friedrich Wilhelm Müller , was a Prussian who pioneered bodybuilding in 19th century and was often referred to as the `` Father of Modern Bodybuilding '' .
The genus includes pathogens known to cause serious diseases in mammals , including tuberculosis ( Mycobacterium tuberculosis ) and leprosy ( Mycobacterium leprae ) .	The genus includes pathogens known to cause serious diseases in mammals , including tuberculosis ( Mycobacterium tuberculosis ) and leprosy ( Mycobacterium leprae ) .
Kevin is diagnosed with Morquio syndrome .	Kevin is diagnosed with Morquio syndrome . )
Until he was partially disabled by a cerebral infarction , he was Director of the National Institute for Medical Research at Mill Hill .	Until he was partially disabled by a stroke , Medawar was Director of the National Institute for Medical Research at Mill Hill , London .
Most oncogenes require an additional step , such as mutations in another gene , or environmental factors , such as viral infection , to cause cancer .	Most oncogenes require an additional step , such as mutations in another gene , or environmental factors , such as viral infection , to cause cancer .
A proto-oncogene is a normal gene that can become an oncogene due to mutations or increased expression .	A proto-oncogene is a normal gene that can become an oncogene due to mutations or increased expression .
For skiers with visual impairments , guides are used to assist the skier down the course .	For skiers with seeing problems , guides are used to help the skier down the mountain .
By the 1980s , classification existed for skiers with cerebral palsy .	By the 1980s , groups had existence for skiers with cerebral palsy .
Mycoplasma genitalium is a small parasitic bacterium that lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the primate genital and respiratory tracts .	Mycoplasma genitalium is a small parasitic bacterium which lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the primate genital and respiratory tracts .
It was the second complete bacterial genome ever sequenced , after Haemophilus influenzae .	It was the second complete bacterial genome ever sequenced , after Haemophilus influenzae .
Infection by M. genitalium seems fairly common , can be transmitted between partners during unprotected sexual intercourse , and can be treated with antibiotics ; however , the organism 's role in genital diseases is still unclear .	Infection by M. genitalium is fairly common , and is transmitted between partners during unprotected sexual intercourse .
Mycoplasma genitalium was originally isolated in 1980 from urethral specimens of two male humans with non-gonococcal urethritis .	Mycoplasma genitalium was originally isolated in 1980 from the urethras of two male humans with non-gonococcal urethritis .
On February 16 , 2013 , at the age of 37 , Jolie underwent a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87 % risk of developing breast cancer due to a defective BRCA1 gene .	She said in May 2013 that she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87 % risk of getting breast cancer .
McCubbin died in 1917 from a heart attack .	He died in 1917 from a heart attack .
Endoscopy means looking inside and typically refers to looking inside the body for medical reasons using an endoscope , an instrument used to examine the interior of a hollow organ or cavity of the body .	Endoscopy means to look inside and often means looking inside the body for medical reasons using an instrument called an endoscope .
The primary mode of nutrition is by phagocytosis : the cell surrounds potential food particles , sealing them into vacuoles where the may be digested and absorbed .	The cell surrounds food particles , sealing them into vacuoles where they are digested and absorbed .
The optic chiasm or optic chiasma ( Greek χίασμα , `` crossing '' , from the Greek χιάζω ` to mark with an X ' , after the Greek letter ' Χ ' , chi ) is the part of the brain where the optic nerves ( CN II ) partially cross .	The optic chiasma , or ` optic chiasm ' , is the part of the brain where the optic nerves ( CN II ) partially cross .
Beyond the optic chiasm , with crossed and uncrossed fibers , the optic nerves become optic tracts .	Beyond the optic chiasm , with crossed and uncrossed fibers , optic nerves become optic tracts .
She died of measles in 1712 , followed by her husband a week later .	She died of measles in 1712 , followed by her husband a week later .
In early April 1711 , her father-in-law Le Grand Dauphin caught smallpox and died on 14 April at the Château de Meudon .	In early April 1711 , her father-in-law Le Grand Dauphin caught smallpox and died in April .
At Fontainebleau , Marie Adélaïde caught a fever which escalated in measles .	The court went to Fontainebleau where Marie Adélaïde caught a fever which became in measles .
It was at Marly that the Dauphin himself died six days later , having caught the measles from his wife .	Her husband who mourned her greatly died six days later , having caught the measles from his wife .
Diseases or conditions linked to candidiasis include HIV\/AIDS , mononucleosis , cancer treatments , steroids , stress , and nutrient deficiency .	HIV\/AIDS , cancer treatments , steroids , stress and not enough nutrients may cause candidiasis .
Candidiasis or thrush is a fungal infection ( mycosis ) of any species from the genus Candida ( one genus of yeasts ) .	It is a fungal infection ( mycosis ) .
Candida albicans is the most common agent of Candidiasis in humans .	Candida albicans is the most common species .
After suffering from myelodysplasia , Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62 on December 20 , 1996 .	After a long and difficult fight with myelodysplasia , Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62 , on December 20 , 1996 , at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle , Washington .
This was despite his worsening colitis , .	This was despite his worsening colitis .
During that year he fell ill with ulcerative colitis , a form of inflammatory bowel disease , and was forced to return to the United States for treatment .	During that year he fell ill with ulcerative colitis , a form of inflammatory bowel disease .
McCarty was the youngest and longest surviving member of the research team responsible for this feat ( known as the Avery-MacLeod-McCarty experiment ) , which also included Oswald T. Avery and Colin MacLeod ; he died on January 2 , 2005 , from congestive heart failure .	McCarty was the youngest and longest surviving member of the research team responsible for the Avery-MacLeod-McCarty experiment .
Uncovering the molecular secret of the gene in question - that for the capsular polysaccharide of pneumococcal bacteria - led the way to studying heredity not only through genetics but also through chemistry , and initiated the dawn of the age of molecular biology .	Studies of bacteria led the way to studying heredity through genetics and biochemistry .
Maclyn McCarty , who devoted his life as a physician-scientist to studying infectious disease organisms , was best known for his part in the monumental discovery that DNA , rather than protein , constituted the chemical nature of a gene .	McCarty devoted his life to studying infectious disease organisms .
In 1980 , Shines ' music was brought to a standstill when he suffered a stroke .	In 1980 , Shines stopped played after he suffered a stroke .
Élisabeth Charlotte died of a stroke , on 23 December 1744 , one week after her daughter-in-law and grandchild , at the age of sixty-eight .	Élisabeth Charlotte died of a stroke , on 23 December 1744 , one week after her daughter-in-law and grandchild , at the age of sixty-eight .
Three of them died within a week in May 1711 due to a smallpox outbreak at the Château de Lunéville , the country seat of the Duke 's of Lorraine .	Three of them died within a week in May 1711 due to a smallpox outbreak at the Château de Lunéville , the country seat of the Duke 's of Lorraine .
The offensive use of living organisms ( such as anthrax ) is considered biological warfare rather than chemical warfare ; however , the use of nonliving toxic products produced by living organisms ( e.g. toxins such as botulinum toxin , ricin , and saxitoxin ) is considered chemical warfare under the provisions of the Chemical Weapons Convention ( CWC ) .	However , the use of nonliving toxic products produced by living organisms ( e.g. toxins such as botulinum toxin , ricin , and saxitoxin ) is considered chemical warfare under the provisions of the Chemical Weapons Convention ( CWC ) .
This tradition originates from the Tokugawa period , when the population of Edo ( Tokyo ) , being considerably wealthier than the rural poor , were more susceptible to beri beri due to their high consumption of white rice , which is low in thiamine .	At that time , the population of Edo ( Tokyo ) was much richer than the rural poor , were more susceptible to beri beri because of their high consumption of white rice which is low in thiamine .
It was discovered that beri beri could be prevented by regularly eating thiamine-rich soba .	They are thought to have made up for this by regularly eating thiamine-rich soba .
In 1965 , Jackson died of heart failure in her sleep , at her home in North Bennington , at the age of 48 .	In 1965 , Shirley Jackson died of heart failure in her sleep at the age of 48 .
He died at age 82 in Washington , Sussex , of heart failure .	He died aged 82 in Washington , Sussex of heart failure .
Bruno Walter died of a heart attack in his Beverly Hills home in 1962 .	Bruno Walter died of a heart attack in his Beverly Hills home in 1962 .
He was running with a cold .	He was running with a cold .
He has an arm amputation , as a result of a fall when he was a child that led to medical complications that later resulted in him getting gangrene .	He has an arm amputation .
The most apparent thing that differentiates a boy from a girl is that a boy typically has a penis while girls have a vagina .	Little boys still have the body of a child .
A significant event in the history of epidemiology and public health was Dr. John Snow 's study of an 1854 outbreak of cholera in Soho .	A significant event in the history of epidemiology and public health was Dr. John Snow 's study of an 1854 outbreak of cholera in Soho .
Science writer Steven Johnson describes the 2006 appearance of places related to the Broad Street Pump cholera outbreak : A replica of the pump , with a memorial plaque and without a handle ( to signify John Snow 's action to halt the outbreak ) was erected near the location of the original pump .	Science writer Steven Johnson describes the 2006 appearance of places related to the Broad Street Pump cholera outbreak : A replica of the pump , with a memorial plaque and without a handle ( to signify John Snow 's action to halt the outbreak ) was erected near the location of the original pump .
This is an early example of epidemiology , public health medicine and the application of science-the germ theory of disease-in a real-life crisis .	This is an early example of epidemiology , public health medicine and the application of science-the germ theory of disease .
The `` behavior switching '' that takes place within the basal ganglia is influenced by signals from many parts of the brain , including the prefrontal cortex , which plays a key role in executive functions .	This `` behavior switching '' is influenced by signals from many parts of the brain , including the prefrontal cortex , which plays a key role in doing things .
Basal ganglia are strongly interconnected with the cerebral cortex , thalamus , and brainstem , as well as several other brain areas .	The basal ganglia ( or basal nuclei ) are three areas under the cerebral cortex .
Parts of the basal ganglia are in direct communication with the thalamus and the cortex .	They are part of the cerebrum ( forebrain ) , and connected to the midbrain and the thalamus .
Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) is a personality disorder in which a person is excessively preoccupied with personal adequacy , power , prestige and vanity .	Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) is a Cluster B personality disorder in which the person is centred on ability , power , status , vanity and egocentrism .
Rushed to hospital , she was diagnosed with avascular necrosis brought on by chronic hepatitis .	Rushed to hospital , she was diagnosed with avascular necrosis brought on by chronic hepatitis .
Misora died on June 24 , 1989 from pneumonia at the age of 52 , at a hospital in Tokyo .	On 24 June 1989 , after being confined to a hospital in Tokyo , she died from pneumonia at the age of 52 .
Although lying with serious pneumonia , the prison doctor refused him the necessary medication claiming he was not worthy of it .	Although lying with serious pneumonia , the prison doctor refused him the necessary medication claiming he was not worthy of it .
He fell seriously ill , being affected by bad conditions and regular torture .	He fell seriously ill , being affected by bad conditions and regular tortures .
For many years it had been known that bacterial and other cells could respond to external conditions by regulating levels of their key metabolic enzymes , and\/or the activity of these enzymes .	For many years it had been known that bacterial and other cells could respond to external conditions by regulating levels of their key metabolic enzymes , and\/or the activity of these enzymes .
In the relatively simple genome of baker 's yeast , ( saccharomyces cerevisiae ) , 405 of its 6,419 protein-encoding genes are directly involved in transcriptional control , compared to 1,938 that are enzymes .	In the relatively simple genome of baker 's yeast , ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) , 405 of its 6,419 protein-encoding genes are directly involved in transcriptional control , compared to 1,938 that are enzymes .
For instance , if a bacterium finds itself in a broth containing lactose , rather than the simpler sugar glucose , it must adapt itself to the need to 1 ) import lactose , 2 ) cleave lactose to its constituents glucose and galactose , and 3 ) convert the galactose to glucose .	For instance , if a bacterium finds itself in a broth containing lactose , rather than the simpler sugar glucose , it must adapt itself to : It was known that cells increase the enzymes for these steps when exposed to lactose .
Paulsen was suffering from colon and brain cancer when he died from complications of pneumonia in Tijuana , Mexico , on April 25 , 1997 .	Paulsen died on April 24 , 1997 from pneumonia from complications of brain and colon cancer , during medical treatment in Tajuana , Mexico , he was 69 years old .
The family was apprehended in 1944 and Anne Frank died of typhus in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp .	The family was caught in 1944 and Anne Frank died of typhus in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp .
Symptoms of infection with cowpox virus in humans are localized , pustular lesions generally found on the hands and limited to the site of introduction .	Symptoms of infection with cowpox virus in humans are localized , pustular lesions generally found on the hands and limited to the site of introduction .
The virus is found in Europe , and mainly in the UK .	The Cowpox ( Catpox ) virus is found in Europe and mainly in the UK .
The virus , part of the orthopoxvirus family , is so closely related to the vaccinia virus that the two are often spoken of interchangeably .	It is caused by a virus ( Cowpox virus ) that is related to the Vaccinia virus .
By scratching the fluid from cowpox lesions into the skin of healthy individuals , he was able to immunize those people against smallpox .	So he used the fluid he got from cowpox lesions , and scratched it into healthy people .
The incubation period is 9 to 10 days .	The incubation period ( the time between an infectionm and the first signs of the disease ) is 9-10 days .
Thalidomide is currently used for the treatment of other diseases , notably cancer and leprosy .	Thalidomide is now used as a therapy for leprosy .
The scientific study of the nervous system has increased significantly during the second half of the twentieth century , principally due to advances in molecular biology , electrophysiology , and computational neuroscience .	This is mainly because of progress in molecular biology , electrophysiology , and computational neuroscience .
Although hypertrophy and hyperplasia are two distinct processes , they frequently occur together , such as in the case of the hormonally-induced proliferation and enlargement of the cells of the uterus during pregnancy .	Although hypertrophy and hyperplasia are two distinct processes , they frequently occur together , such as in the case of the hormonally-induced proliferation and enlargement of the cells of the uterus during pregnancy .
Hypertrophy ( from Greek ὑπέρ `` excess '' + τροφή `` nourishment '' ) is the increase in the volume of an organ or tissue due to the enlargement of its component cells .	Hypertrophy ( from Greek ὑπέρ `` excess '' + τροφή `` nourishment '' ) is the increase in the volume of an organ or tissue due to the enlargement of its component cells .
Elizabeth Mitchell returns as fertility specialist Dr. Juliet Burke , Dominic Monaghan returns as deceased rock star Charlie Pace , and Jeremy Davies returns as deceased physicist Daniel Faraday .	Elizabeth Mitchell returns as fertility specialist Dr. Juliet Burke .
One high estimate is that the Plague of Justinian killed as many as 25 million people across the world .	It is estimated that the Plague of Justinian killed as many as 100 million people across the world , because it returned about every twelve years till 770 when it stopped for about 500 years .
The Plague of Justinian ( AD 541-542 ) was a pandemic that afflicted the Eastern Roman Empire ( Byzantine Empire ) , including its capital Constantinople .	The Plague of Justinian was a pandemic in the Byzantine Empire in the years 541-542 .
Byrd died of heart disease on July 30 , 2013 in Winchester , Virginia at `` Courtfield '' .	Byrd died from heart disease at the age of 98 on July 30 , 2013 .
Frederick Akbar Mahomed ( d. 1884 ) , who worked at Guy 's Hospital in London , made substantial contributions to the process of clinical trials , where `` he separated chronic nephritis with secondary hypertension from what we now term essential hypertension .	Frederick Akbar Mahomed ( d. 1884 ) , who worked at Guy 's Hospital in London , made substantial contributions to the process of clinical trials during his detailed clinical studies , where `` he separated chronic nephritis with secondary hypertension from what we now term essential hypertension . ''
He laid out the following rules and principles for testing the effectiveness of new drugs and medications : One of the most famous clinical trials was James Lind 's demonstration in 1747 that citrus fruits cure scurvy .	He laid out the following rules and principles for testing the effectiveness of new drugs and medications , which still form the basis of modern clinical trials : One of the most famous clinical trials was James Lind 's demonstration in 1747 that citrus fruits cure scurvy .
He compared the effects of various acidic substances , ranging from vinegar to cider , on groups of afflicted sailors , and found the group who were given oranges and lemons had largely recovered from scurvy after six days .	He compared the effects of various different acidic substances , ranging from vinegar to cider , on groups of afflicted sailors , and found that the group who were given oranges and lemons had largely recovered from scurvy after 6 days .
Palmer died in a Paris hotel room from a heart attack on 26 September 2003 at the age of 54 .	A heavy smoker , he died in Paris , France , from a heart attack on 26 September 2003 at the age of 54 .
Despite a struggle with diabetes , Grumiaux continued a rigorous schedule of recording and concert performances , primarily in Western Europe , until a sudden stroke in Brussels took his life in 1986 at the age of 65 .	Despite a struggle with diabetes , Grumiaux continued a schedule of recording and concert performances , mostly in Western Europe .
Other factors that play an important role include social isolation and immigration related to social adversity , racial discrimination , family dysfunction , unemployment , and poor housing conditions .	Other factors that play an important role include whether the person feels socially isolated , as well as social adversity , racial discrimination , failures in family functioning , unemployment , and poor housing conditions .
The greatest risk for developing schizophrenia is having a first-degree relative with the disease ( risk is 6.5 % ) ; more than 40 % of monozygotic twins of those with schizophrenia are also affected .	The greatest risk ( 6.5 percent ) for developing schizophrenia is having a first-degree relative with the condition .
Factors such as hypoxia and infection , or stress and malnutrition in the mother during fetal development , may result in a slight increase in the risk of schizophrenia later in life .	Pre-birth factors Factors such as oxygen deprivation , infection , or stress and lack of healthy foods in one 's mother during pregnancy , might result in a slight increase in the risk of schizophrenia later in life .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional conditions , including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 % .	People with schizophrenia might also have other mental health disorders , including depression , anxiety and drug abuse .
Mammary intercourse is a sex act , performed as foreplay or as non-penetrative sex , that involves the stimulation of the male penis by the female breasts and vice versa .	It is non-penetrative sex .
In 1900 he started to suffer from Bright 's disease and returned to writing piano music .	In 1900 he started to suffer from Bright 's disease and started to write more piano music .
Albéniz died from his kidney disease on 18 May 1909 at age 48 in Cambo-les-Bains .	Albéniz died on 18th May 1909 at the age of 48 in Cambô-les-Bains and is buried in Barcelona .
On 13 March 1798 , Weber 's mother died of tuberculosis .	Weber 's mother died of tuberculosis when he was eleven .
Asbestos can cause a variety of lung diseases , including lung cancer .	There are three types of non-small cell lung cancer :
Tobacco smoking and asbestos have a synergistic effect on the formation of lung cancer .	Cigarette smoking causes most lung cancers .
Lung cancer ( also known as carcinoma of the lung ) is a malignant lung tumor characterized by uncontrolled cell growth in tissues of the lung .	Lung cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in one or both of the lungs .
Her ( younger ) twin sister Princess Maria Cristina Amelia died of smallpox in 1783 , aged five , a week after their brother Prince Giuseppe died .	Her ( younger ) twin sister Princess Maria Cristina Amelia died of smallpox in 1783 , aged five , a week after their brother Prince Giuseppe died .
The league 's long-time president Frank Calder died due to heart disease .	The league 's long-time president Frank Calder died due to heart disease .
Familial adenomatous polyposis ( FAP ) , Gardner Syndrome , Lynch Syndrome , Muir-Torre syndrome , Celiac sprue , Puetz-Jeghers , Crohn 's Disease and Juvenile Polyposis Syndrome are risk factors for developing this cancer .	Familial adenomatous polyposis ( FAP ) , Gardner Syndrome , Lynch Syndrome , Muir-Torre syndrome , Celiac sprue , Puetz-Jeghers , Crohn 's Disease and Juvenile Polyposis Syndrome are risk factors for having this cancer .
After foods combine with stomach acid , they descend into the duodenum where they mix with bile from the gall bladder and digestive juices from the pancreas .	After foods combine with stomach acid , they go down into the duodenum where they mix with bile from the gall bladder and digestive juices from the pancreas .
Stanisław Moniuszko died on 4 June 1872 in Warsaw of a sudden heart attack and was buried in Powązki Cemetery .	Stanisław Moniuszko died on 4 June 1872 in Warsaw of a sudden heart attack .
The National Alliance on Mental Illness criticized the episode for its depiction of bipolar disorder .	The National Alliance on Mental Illness gave positive reviews for the episode 's definition of bipolar disorder .
In December 2010 , Paltrow confirmed that she would return to the series for another episode at a later date , and in January 2011 , Murphy confirmed her reappearance , this time as a sex education teacher planned for episodes 15 and 16 .	In December 2010 , Paltrow said that she would return to the series for another episode .
Cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester ( Jane Lynch ) is appointed acting principal of William McKinley High School after having Principal Figgins ( Iqbal Theba ) infected with the flu .	Cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester ( Jane Lynch ) is given the job of being the principal of William McKinley High School .
Cavendish retained the leader 's jersey by sprinting to victory on stage two but finished fifth on stage three , losing the overall lead to Hushovd , and was forced to withdraw from the race before stage four due to a lung infection .	Cavendish retained the leader 's jersey by sprinting to victory on stage two but finished fifth on stage three , losing the overall lead to Thor Hushovd , and was forced to withdraw from the race before stage four due to a lung infection .
Like for salamanders , the regeneration of the liver involves dedifferentiation of some cells to a more embryonal state .	Like for salamanders , the regeneration of the liver involves reversing some cells to an earlier state.592-601
All the lipoproteins carry cholesterol , but elevated levels of the lipoproteins other than HDL ( termed non-HDL cholesterol ) , particularly LDL-cholesterol are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease .	LDL ( low density lipoprotein ) is sometimes called ` bad cholesterol ' because people with high levels of LDL cholesterol have more atherosclerosis .
In contrast higher levels of HDL cholesterol are protective .	HDL , an acronym for ` high density lipoprotein ' is sometimes called ` good cholesterol ' because people with high levels of HDL cholesterol have less atherosclerosis .
Statins ( or HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ) are commonly used to treat hypercholesterolemia if diet is ineffective .	They are also called HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors .
Although hypercholesterolemia itself is asymptomatic , longstanding elevation of serum cholesterol can lead to atherosclerosis .	High levels of cholesterol can lead to atherosclerosis .
A sudden occlusion of a coronary artery results in a myocardial infarction or heart attack .	A heart attack is also called a myocardial infarction .
Up to 1 % of women have bulimia nervosa .	The person may also have anorexia nervosa .
Bulimia nervosa is considered to be less life threatening than anorexia ; however , the occurrence of bulimia nervosa is higher .	Bulimia nervosa can cause many health problems .
Some individuals may tend to alternate between bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa .	Bulimia nervosa ( bulimia ) is a disease and a type of eating disorder .
Surgical subspecialties include neurosurgery , ophthalmology , orthopedic surgery , ( ENT ) and facial plastic surgery , plastic surgery , thoracic surgery , transplantation , Trauma , urology , and vascular surgery .	Surgical subspecialties include neurosurgery , ophthalmology , orthopedic surgery , ( ENT ) and facial plastic surgery , plastic surgery , thoracic surgery , transplantation , Trauma , urology , and vascular surgery .
genomic medicine , hematology , infectious diseases , nephrology , neurology , obstetrics\/gynecology , oncology , pathology , perioperative care , physical medicine and rehabilitation , psychiatry , pulmonology , radiology , rheumatology , and sports medicine .	genomic medicine , hematology , infectious diseases , nephrology , neurology , obstetrics\/gynecology , oncology , pathology , perioperative care , physical medicine and rehabilitation , psychiatry , pulmonology , radiology , rheumatology , and sports medicine .
Human respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is a virus that causes respiratory tract infections .	Human respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is a virus that causes lung infections , ( usually called respiratory tract infections ) .
It is a major cause of lower respiratory tract infections and hospital visits during infancy and childhood .	It is the major cause of lung infections and hospital visits in babies and children .
The middle ear still contains the sound information in wave form ; it is converted to nerve impulses in the cochlea .	They are then converted to nerve impulses in the cochlea .
This wave information travels across the air-filled middle ear cavity via a series of delicate bones : the malleus ( hammer ) , incus ( anvil ) and stapes ( stirrup ) .	The malleus ( hammer ) , incus ( anvil ) and stapes ( stirrup ) .
Morgan died of a heart attack on September 18 , 1949 , while filming Annie Get Your Gun ( replaced by Louis Calhern ) .	He died of a heart attack on September 18 , 1949 .
He had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 1980 .	He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 1980 .
Menuhin died in Martin Luther Hospital , Berlin , Germany , from complications of bronchitis .	Lord Menuhin died in Berlin , Germany , from bronchitis .
In October 1836 , after receiving his M.D. and being appointed by the University of Zurich as a lecturer in anatomy , Büchner relocated to Zurich where he spent his final months writing and teaching until his death from typhus at the age of twenty-three .	In October 1836 he got a job at the University of Zürich as a lecturer in anatomy and went back to Zürich where he spent his final months writing and teaching until he died of typhus at the age of twenty-three .
On February 2 , 2013 , Kerr died of heart failure at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena , California .	Kerr died on February 2 , 2013 in Pasadena , California from heart failure , aged 81 .
The levels of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are vastly increased after injury to the central nervous system where they act to prevent regeneration of damaged nerve endings .	The levels of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are vastly increased after injury to the central nervous system where they act to prevent regeneration of damaged nerve endings .
Loss of chondroitin sulfate from the cartilage is a major cause of osteoarthritis .	Loss of chondroitin sulfate from the cartilage is a major cause of osteoarthritis .
Along with glucosamine , chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis .	Along with glucosamine , chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis .
Chondroitin , without the `` sulfate '' , has been used to describe a fraction with little or no sulfation .	Chondroitin , without the `` sulfate '' , has been used to describe a type with little or no sulfation .
Ebsen died of pneumonia at Torrance Memorial Medical Center in Torrance , California , on July 6 , 2003 , at the age of 95 .	Ebsen died on July 6 , 2003 in the Torrance Memorial Medical Center in Torrance , California from pneumonia , aged 95 years old .
The date of May 17 was chosen to commemorate the decision to remove homosexuality from the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in 1990 .	On this day in 1990 , the World Health Organization removed homosexuality from the International Classification of Diseases , where it was listed as a mental illness .
In many cases the structure is of no direct harm , yet all structures require extra energy in terms of development , maintenance , and weight , and are also a risk in terms of disease ( e.g. , infection , cancer ) , providing some selective pressure for the removal of parts that do not contribute to an organism 's fitness .	This , and the risk of disease in the part ( e.g. , infection , cancer ) , provide some selection for the removal of parts which no longer help an organism 's fitness .
Edmund died of measles on 28 February 1900 , at the age of five .	Edmund died of measles on 28 February 1900 , at the age of five .
Both infants died of diphtheria during the winter of 1886-1887 .	Both infants died of diphtheria during the winter of 1886-1887 .
Madge Bellamy died of heart failure in Upland , California , aged 90 .	She died in Upland , California of heart failure .
Some of its functions are the relaying of sensory and motor signals to the cerebral cortex , and the regulation of consciousness , sleep , and alertness .	It relays sensory and motor signals to the cerebral cortex , and regulates consciousness , sleep , and alertness .
The thalamus ( from Greek θάλαμος , `` chamber '' ) is a midline symmetrical structure of two halves , within the vertebrate brain , situated between the cerebral cortex and the midbrain .	The thalamus is a midline symmetrical structure in the brains of vertebrates .
The accessory genital ducts , the seminal vesicle , prostate glands , and the bulbourethral glands , produce most of the seminal fluid .	The fluids in seminal plasma come from different glands in the man 's body : the seminal vesicles , prostate and bulbourethral glands ( also called the Cowper 's glands ) .
It is named after John Langdon Down , the British doctor who fully described the syndrome in 1866 .	The condition is named after John Langdon Down , the British doctor who first described it in 1866 .
The genetic cause of Down syndrome-an extra copy of chromosome 21-was identified by French researchers in 1959 .	People with Down syndrome have an extra copy of chromosome 21 , or part of it .
He died from pancreatic cancer on 6 September 2007 .	He was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in July 2006 and died of the disease on 6 September 2007 at his home in Modena .
In the beginning , Italian settlements failed , because many Italians died of tropical diseases or left the colonies to find better conditions .	This was because many Italians died of tropical diseases or left the colonies to find better conditions .
The city suffered from plague outbreaks in 1544 , 1589 and 1598 .	The city suffered from a number of plague outbreaks in 1544 , 1589 and 1598 .
In the female , the pubic bone is anterior to the urethral sponge .	In the female , the pubic bone is in front of the urethral sponge .
He died of the plague , the year after his ennoblement on December 13 , 1565 .	He died of the plague , the year after his ennoblement .
His death came as a result of fatigue and cold in the ceremony of taking possession of the Basilica of St John Lateran .	His death came as a result of fatigue and cold in the ceremony of taking possession of the Basilica of St John Lateran .
Examples of monosaccharides include glucose ( dextrose ) , fructose ( levulose ) and galactose .	Examples of monosaccharides include glucose ( dextrose ) , fructose , galactose , and ribose .
For instance , galactose and glucose are both aldohexoses , but have different physical structures and chemical properties .	For instance , galactose and glucose are both aldohexoses , but they have different chemical and physical properties .
When Robert was one year old , his father died in the flu pandemic of 1918 .	When he was one year old , his father died in the influenza pandemic of 1918 .
In 1944 , with his post doctoral researcher , William von Eggers Doering , Woodward reported the synthesis of the alkaloid quinine , used to treat malaria .	In 1944 Woodward and William von Eggers Doering reported the synthesis of the alkaloid quinine , used to treat malaria .
In each one of these cases , Woodward again showed how rational facts and chemical principles , combined with chemical intuition , could be used to achieve the task .	About terramycin , Woodward 's colleague and Nobel Laureate Derek Barton said : In each one of these cases , Woodward again showed how rational facts and chemical principles , combined with chemical intuition , could be used to achieve the task .
Ricketts retired from the Royal Marines on 1 June 1944 because of ill health and died at his home in Reigate , Surrey , on 15 May 1945 , after an operation for cancer .	He died at his home in Reigate , Surrey , on 15 May 1945 , after an operation for cancer .
Lust is the initial passionate sexual desire that promotes mating , and involves the increased release of chemicals such as testosterone and estrogen .	Lust is the passionate sexual desire that promotes mating .
Recent studies in neuroscience have indicated that as people fall in love , the brain consistently releases a certain set of chemicals , including the neurotransmitter hormones , dopamine , norepinephrine , and serotonin , the same compounds released by amphetamine , stimulating the brain 's pleasure center and leading to side effects such as increased heart rate , loss of appetite and sleep , and an intense feeling of excitement .	Recent studies in neuroscience say that as people fall in love , the brain releases chemicals , including dopamine .
In many instances , the entire ribosome\/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .	Many ribosomes , together with mRNA , will attach themselves to the outer membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
With his army weakened by disease-mostly bubonic plague-and poor supplies , Bonaparte was unable to reduce the fortress of Acre and returned to Egypt in May .	But his army is weakened by bubonic plague and poor supplies .
The season is noted for having the first reality show contestant with a disability , the hearing impaired Christy Smith .	The season is well known for having the first reality show player with a disability , the hearing impaired Christy Smith .
In 1907 , the rod-like bacterium was called Bacillus bulgaricus ( now Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp .	In 1907 the rod-like bacteria was called Lactobacillus bulgaricus ( now Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp .
Dairy yogurt is produced using a culture of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp .	It is produced using a culture of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp .
A study published in the International Journal of Obesity ( 11 January 2005 ) also found that the consumption of low-fat yogurt can promote weight loss , relative to a gelatin placebo .	A study in the International Journal of Obesity ( 11 January 2005 ) found that eating low-fat yoghurt can help weight loss .
The oldest writings mentioning yogurt are attributed to Pliny the Elder , who remarked that certain `` barbarous nations '' knew how `` to thicken the milk into a substance with an agreeable acidity '' .	The oldest writings mentioning yogurt were by Pliny the Elder , who said that some people knew how to thicken the milk into something which was sour but tasty .
Yogurt containing live cultures has been found effective in a randomized trial at preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea .	and in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea .
Although the primary example is the Sacred Band of Thebes , a unit said to have been formed of same-sex couples , the Spartan tradition of military heroism has also been explained in light of strong emotional bonds resulting from homosexual relationships .	The Spartan tradition of military heroism has also been explained in light of strong emotional bonds resulting from homosexual relationships .
Like the others , septicemic plague spread from the East through trade routes on the Black Sea and down to the Mediterranean Sea .	Like the others , the septicemic plague spread from the East through trade routes on the Black Sea and down to the Mediterranean Sea .
It is caused by Yersinia pestis , a gram-negative species of bacterium .	It is caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis .
Septicemic ( or septicaemic ) plague is one of the three main forms of plague .	Septicemic ( or septicaemic ) plague is a deadly blood infection .
In septicemic plague , bacterial endotoxins cause disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) , where tiny blood clots form throughout the body , commonly resulting in localized ischemic necrosis , tissue death from lack of circulation and perfusion .	The endotoxins cause disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) .
The following steps and precautions should be used to avoid infection of the septicemic plague : Septicemic plague was the least common of the three plague varieties that occurred during the Black Death from 1348 to 1350 ( the other two being bubonic plague and pneumonic plague ) .	Note : Septicemic plague may cause death before any symptoms occur The septicemic plague was the least common of the three plagues that occurred from 1348 to 1350 .
The massive loss of working population in Europe following the Black Death , resulting in increased economic bargaining power of the serf labor force , was a major precipitating factor for the Peasants ' Revolt of 1381 .	The three plagues that are part of the Black Death were a major factor in the Peasant 's Revolt of 1381 .
Consequently , the unclotted blood bleeds into the skin and other organs , leading to red or black patchy rash and to hematemesis ( vomiting blood ) or hemoptysis ( spitting blood ) .	This means there is bleeding into the skin and other organs , which can cause red and\/or black patchy rash and coughing up or vomiting of blood ( hemoptysis\/haemoptysis ) .
Death is almost inevitable if treatment is delayed more than about 24 hours , and some people may even die on the same day they present with the disease .	In some cases , people may even die on the same day they get the disease .
The part of the pancreas with endocrine function is made up of approximately a million cell clusters called islets of Langerhans .	The part of the pancreas that makes hormones is called the Islets of Langerhans .
These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates , proteins , and lipids in the chyme .	The pancreas helps break down carbohydrates , fats and proteins .
The pancreas is also a digestive organ , secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine .	The pancreas is an organ that makes hormones and enzymes to help digestion .
He was a recovering alcoholic and drug addict , was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder , and has described himself as a `` borderline schizophrenic . ''	He has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder .
On 31 December 1877 , a day before the first instalment was due , Courbet died , aged 58 , in La Tour-de-Peilz , Switzerland , of a liver disease aggravated by heavy drinking .	Courbet died at La Tour-de-Peilz , Switzerland , on 31 December 1877 , one day before the first payment was due .
It is also believed that all human disease and suffering originated from animal spirits , ghosts or witchcraft .	All disease and suffering is traditionally believed to be caused by the spirits or by witchcraft .
The first edition of Stern 's pioneering textbook The Principles of Human Genetics was published in 1949 , which he said in an autobiographical sketch from 1974 he wrote to feed the needs of premedical students .	The first edition of Stern 's pioneering textbook The Principles of human genetics was published in 1949 .
Antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) is the name of the disorder as defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ( DSM ) .	Antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) is a type of personality disorder in which a person shows a pattern of not caring about and violating other people 's rights .
In 1942 at the age of 43 he began suffering from an unknown disease , losing his voice and memory .	At the age of 43 ( in 1942 ) he began suffering from an unknown disease .
Q fever is a disease caused by infection with Coxiella burnetii , a bacterium that affects humans and other animals .	Q fever is a disease caused by Coxiella burnetii , bacteria that affect humans and other animals .
The infection results from inhalation of a spore-like small cell variant , and from contact with the milk , urine , feces , vaginal mucus , or semen of infected animals .	People can get infected if they inhale endospores or touch the milk , urine , feces , vaginal mucus , or semen of infected animals .
Rarely , the disease is tick borne .	The disease is rarely carried by ticks .
Leishmania currently affects 12 million people in 98 countries .	Leishmania currently affects 12 million people in 98 countries .
Their primary hosts are vertebrates ; Leishmania commonly infects hyraxes , canids , rodents , and humans .	Their primary hosts are vertebrates ; Leishmania commonly infects hyraxes , canids , rodents , and humans .
Hickenlooper opposed the cannabis rescheduling initiative , which voters approved 53.49 % -46.51 % , but he did say that the vote `` reflect ( s ) a genuine shift in people 's attitudes '' .	When the voters approved it 53.49 % -46.51 % , he said that the vote `` reflect ( s ) a genuine shift in people 's attitudes . ''
Splicing is needed for the typical eukaryotic messenger RNA ( mRNA ) before it can be used to produce a correct protein through translation .	This messenger RNA is then used to produce a correct protein by translation .
A graduate student , Stanley Miller , and his professor , Harold Urey , performed an experiment that demonstrated how organic molecules could have spontaneously formed from inorganic precursors , under conditions like those posited by the Oparin-Haldane Hypothesis .	In 1953 a graduate student , Stanley Miller , and his professor , Harold Urey , performed an experiment that showed how organic molecules could have formed on early Earth from inorganic precursors .
In trying to uncover the intermediate stages of abiogenesis mentioned by Bernal , Sidney W. Fox in the 1950s and 1960s , studied the spontaneous formation of peptide structures under conditions that might plausibly have existed early in Earth 's history .	In the 1950s and 1960s , Sidney W. Fox studied the spontaneous formation of peptide structures under conditions that might plausibly have existed early in Earth 's history .
In a letter to Joseph Dalton Hooker on February 1 , 1871 , Charles Darwin addressed the question , suggesting that the original spark of life may have begun in a `` warm little pond , with all sorts of ammonia and phosphoric salts , lights , heat , electricity , etc. present , so that a protein compound was chemically formed ready to undergo still more complex changes '' .	He suggested that the original spark of life may have begun in a `` warm little pond , with all sorts of ammonia and phosphoric salts , lights , heat , electricity , etc. .
Back in the house , Jenny and Lindsay hold hands as Jenny dies from her infection .	Jenny and Lindsay hold hands as Jenny dies from her blood poisoning .
Patau syndrome affects somewhere between 1 in 10,000 and 1 in 21,700 live births .	Patau syndrome affects about one in 25,000 live births .
He is regarded as one of the founders of modern psychosurgery , having developed the surgical procedure leucotomy - known better today as lobotomy - for which he became the first Portuguese national to receive a Nobel Prize in 1949 ( shared with Walter Rudolf Hess ) .	He also developed the surgical procedure leucotomy , also known as lobotomy .
Bubonic plague is a zoonotic disease , circulating mainly in fleas on small rodents , and is one of three types of bacterial infections caused by Yersinia pestis ( formerly known as Pasteurella pestis ) , that belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae .	Bubonic plague is the best-known form of the disease plague , which is caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis .
Bubonic plague was often used synonymously for plague , but it does in fact refer specifically to an infection that enters through the skin and travels through the lymphatics , as is often seen in flea-borne infections .	The name bubonic plague is specific for this form of the disease , which enters through the skin , and travels through the lymphatic system .
The United States Environmental Protection Agency defines food waste for the United States as `` uneaten food and food preparation wastes from residences and commercial establishments such as grocery stores , restaurants , and produce stands , institutional cafeterias and kitchens , and industrial sources like employee lunchrooms '' .	The United States Environmental Protection Agency defines food waste for the United States as `` Uneaten food and food preparation wastes from residences and ( shops ) such as grocery stores , restaurants , and produce stands , institutional cafeterias and kitchens , and industrial sources like employee lunchrooms '' .
Definitions also vary because certain groups do not consider ( or have traditionally not considered ) food waste to be a waste material , due to its applications .	Certain groups have not considered food waste to be waste , because it still has applications .
Some of the food waste produced by processing can be difficult to reduce without affecting the quality of the finished product .	It is difficult to reduce some of the food waste produced by processing without affecting the qualty of the product .
In subsistence agriculture , the amounts of food waste are unknown , but are likely to be insignificant by comparison , due to the limited stages at which waste can occur , and given that food is grown for projected need as opposed to a global marketplace demand .	In subsistence agriculture , the amounts of food waste are unknown .
Losses in the nutritional value , caloric value and edibility of crops , by extremes of temperature , humidity or the action of micro-organisms , also account for food waste ; these `` qualitative losses '' are more difficult to assess than quantitative ones .	Extreme temperature , humidity , or microoganisms also influence the nutritional value , caloric value and edibility of crops and account for food waste .
Although this can conflict with efforts to reuse food waste ( such as in animal feed ) , safety regulations are in place to ensure the health of the consumer ; they are vitally important , especially in the processing of foodstuffs of animal origin ( e.g. meat and dairy products ) , as contaminated products from these sources can lead to and are associated with microbiological and chemical hazards .	Contaminated products from these sources can lead to and are associated with microbiological and chemical hazards .
Research into the food industry of the United States , whose food supply is the most diverse and abundant of any country in the world , found food waste occurring at the beginning of food production .	The researchers looked at the food industry of the United States and found that food was wasted at the beginning of the food production .
In 1920 , at the age of 75 , Fauré retired from the Conservatoire because of his increasing deafness and frailty .	He retired from the Conservatoire in 1920 at the age of 75 .
He died on July 14 , 1965 in London after suffering a heart attack .	Stevenson suffered a heart attack on the afternoon and died later on July 14 , 1965 in London of heart failure .
The return of Rivers 's father threatens to tear the family apart until Uncle Daddy suffers a near fatal heart attack .	The return of Rivers father threatens to tear the family apart until Uncle Daddy has a near fatal heart attack .
His carotid artery was slashed and he remained in a critical condition for several days .	His carotid artery was slashed and he remained in a critical condition for several days .
Bleeding can occur internally , where blood leaks from blood vessels inside the body , or externally , either through a natural opening such as the mouth , nose , ear , urethra , vagina or anus , or through a break in the skin .	Bleeding can occur internally , where blood leaks from blood vessels inside the body , or externally , either through a natural opening such as the vagina , mouth , nose , ear or anus , or through a break in the skin .
Bygraves died on 31 August 2012 , aged 89 , at his home in Hope Island , Queensland , Australia , after being diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease .	Bygraves died on August 31 , 2012 , in Hope Island , Queensland , Australia , from Alzheimer 's disease ; he was 89 years old .
There were no advanced facilities for treatment in the village , so he was taken to an elderly woman in a nearby village who was known to cure trachoma boils to provide relief .	He was taken to a local woman who was known to cure Trachoma .
Following a series of small strokes during the last three years of her life , Colbert died in 1996 at her second home in Barbados , where she was employing one housekeeper and two cooks .	Colbert died at her home in Barbados , following series of small strokes during the last two years of her life at the age of 92 , and she was interred there in the Parish of St. Peter Cemetery along with her mother and husband .
Porter died of kidney failure on October 15 , 1964 , in Santa Monica , California , at the age of 73 .	He died of kidney failure in 1964 in Santa Monica , California .
Porter 's mother died in 1952 , and his wife died from emphysema in 1954 .	In 1952 , Porter 's mother died .
Characters Several of the topics in the novel include selective mutism , death and grief .	Some of topics in the novel include selective mutism , death and grief .
The precentral gyrus , forming the posterior border of the frontal lobe , contains the primary motor cortex , which controls voluntary movements of specific body parts .	The precentral gyrus , forming the back of the frontal lobe , contains the primary motor cortex , which controls voluntary movements of specific body parts .
The frontal lobe is located at the front of each cerebral hemisphere and positioned anterior to ( in front of ) the parietal lobe and superior and anterior to the temporal lobes .	The frontal lobe is an area in the brain of humans and other mammals , at the front of each cerebral hemisphere .
Jerry Nolan died in 1992 following a stroke he suffered in hospital whilst being treated for meningitis and pneumonia .	Jerry Nolan died in 1992 .
A related problem is to explain how someone 's propositional attitudes ( e.g. beliefs and desires ) can cause that individual 's neurons to fire and his muscles to contract in exactly the correct manner .	A related problem is to explain how someone 's beliefs and desires can cause that individual 's neurons to fire and his muscles to contract in exactly the correct manner .
Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by exercise , with stretching a common exercise component to maintain or improve flexibility .	Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by stretching .
At higher doses , GHB may induce nausea , dizziness , drowsiness , agitation , visual disturbances , depressed breathing , amnesia , unconsciousness , and death .	If the dose is increased , the symptoms include nausea , drowsiness , breathing problems , amnesia , unconsciousness and death .
GHB has been used in a medical setting as a general anesthetic , to treat conditions such as insomnia , clinical depression , narcolepsy , and alcoholism , and to improve athletic performance .	In the past it has been used to treat insomnia and depression .
GHB is a central nervous system depressant used as an intoxicant , although it produces a stimulant effect at lower doses due to its action on the GHB receptor .	GHB is a depressant of the central nervous system .
Arthus reactions have been infrequently reported after vaccinations containing diphtheria and tetanus toxoid .	Arthus reactions have been infrequently reported after diphtheria and tetanus toxoid vaccinations .
Further injections eventually led to gangrene .	Further injections eventually led to dying of cells .
Some people , such as Stephen Jay Gould , and Richard Lewontin contended that sociobiology was biologicially determinist .	Some people , such as Stephen Jay Gould , and Richard Lewontin said that sociobiology was biologicially determinist .
Recent research suggests , however , that women tend to have more sexual thoughts and are far more prone to sexual activity right before ovulation ( estrus ) .	Recent research suggests that women tend to have more sexual thoughts and are more prone to sexual activity right before ovulation ( estrus ) .
Mammals share the same reproductive system , including the regulatory hypothalamic system that releases gonadotropin releasing hormone in pulses , the pituitary that secretes follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone , and the ovary itself that releases sex hormones including estrogens and progesterone .	Mammals share the same reproductive system , including the regulatory hypothalamic system that releases gonadotropin-releasing hormone in pulses , the pituitary that secretes follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone , and the ovary itself releases sex hormones like estrogens and progesterone .
Humans , unlike other species , were thought to not have any obvious external signs to signal estral receptivity at ovulation ( concealed ovulation ) .	Humans , and some other primates , do not have any obvious external signs to signal when ovulation occurs ( concealed ovulation ) .
In spastic diplegia in humans , GABA absorption becomes impaired by nerves damaged from the condition 's upper motor neuron lesion , which leads to hypertonia of the muscles signaled by those nerves that can no longer absorb GABA .	In spastic diplegia in humans , GABA absorption by some nerves becomes impaired , which leads to hypertonia of the muscles signaled by those nerves .
Joel Davis , a former FDA expiration-date compliance chief , said that with a handful of exceptions - notably nitroglycerin , insulin and some liquid antibiotics - most expired drugs are probably effective .	Joel Davis , a former FDA expiration-date compliance chief , said that with a handful of exceptions - notably nitroglycerin , insulin and some liquid antibiotics - most expired drugs are probably effective .
Foods with a best before date are usually safe to eat for a time after that date , although they are likely to have deteriorated either in flavor , texture , appearance or nutritional value .	Foods that have a best before date are usually safe to eat after the date has passed , although they are likely to have deteriorated either in flavor , texture , appearance or nutrition .
That is why shelf life is generally extended by temperature control : ( refrigeration , insulated shipping containers , controlled cold chain , etc. ) and why some medicines and foods must be refrigerated .	This is the reason shelf life is generally extended by temperature control : ( refrigeration , insulated shipping containers , controlled cold chain , etc. ) and the reason some medicines and foods must be refrigerated .
In most food stores , waste is minimized by using stock rotation , which involves moving products with the earliest sell by date from the warehouse to the sales area , and then to the front of the shelf , so that most shoppers will pick them up first and thus they are likely to be sold before the end of their shelf life .	This means moving products with the earliest sell by date to the front of the shelf , so that most shoppers will pick them up first and so getting them out of the store .
There is a widespread impression , for instance in industry , that `` triple time '' can be simulated in practice by increasing the temperature by 15 ° C , e.g. , storing a product for one month at 35 ° C simulates three months at 20 ° C. This is mathematically incorrect ( if the rule was precisely accurate the required temperature increase would be about 15.8 ° C ) , and in any case the rule is only a rough approximation and can not always be relied on .	for instance in industry , that `` triple time '' can be simulated in practice by increasing the temperature by 15 C ° , e.g. storing a product for one month at 35 ° C simulates three months at 20 ° C. There is enough variation that this practical rule can not be routinely relied upon .
A rare exception is a case of renal tubular acidosis purportedly caused by expired tetracycline .	A rare exception is a case of renal tubular damage said to have been caused by out of date tetracycline .
Prince and Princess Alexander of Teck had three children : Princess Alice was one of the carriers of the gene for hemophilia which arose with Queen Victoria .	Prince and Princess Alexander of Teck had three children : Princess Alice was one of the carriers of the gene for hemophilia which arose with Queen Victoria .
The proposal was criticized as an example of trivial and overly intrusive legislation , while Barrios ' supporters pointed to concerns over the problem of childhood obesity .	Barrios ' supporters pointed to the problem of childhood obesity .
When Keenan was 11 , his mother suffered a paralyzing cerebral aneurysm , which would later serve as the inspiration for many of his creative works .	When Keenan was 11 , his mother , Judith , had a brain aneurysm that paralyzed her .
This risk of devastation had been known for some time ; previous studies by FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers had warned that a direct hurricane strike on New Orleans could lead to massive flooding , which would lead to thousands of drowning deaths , as well as many more suffering from disease and dehydration , as the flood waters slowly receded from the city .	This risk of devastation had been known for some time ; previous studies by FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers had warned that a direct hurricane strike on New Orleans could lead to massive flooding , which would lead to thousands of drowning deaths , as well as many more suffering from disease and dehydration , as the flood waters slowly retreated from the city .
He died of a subsequent heart attack on his family farm of Doornkloof , Irene , near Pretoria , on 11 September 1950 .	Smuts died on 11 September 1950 from a heart attack on his family farm .
Acute kidney injuries can be present on top of chronic kidney disease , a condition called acute-on-chronic renal failure ( AoCRF ) .	It is possible to have acute renal failure on top of chronic renal failure .
Renal failure ( also kidney failure or renal insufficiency ) is a medical condition in which the kidneys fail to adequately filter waste products from the blood .	Kidney failure ( also called renal failure ) is a term used to describe when a person 's kidneys stop working properly , or fail .
Acute kidney injury ( AKI ) , previously called acute renal failure ( ARF ) , is a rapidly progressive loss of renal function , generally characterized by oliguria ( decreased urine production , quantified as less than 400 mL per day in adults , less than 0.5 mL\/kg\/h in children or less than 1 mL\/kg\/h in infants ) ; and fluid and electrolyte imbalance .	This is called acute-on-chronic renal failure .
Jack had some serious health issues then unknown to the public : he suffered from Addison 's Disease and from chronic and at times debilitating back pain due to a war injury .	He suffered from Addison 's disease and from chronic and debilitating back pain due to a war injury .
Shortly afterward Koch suffered a stroke in 1987 while in office , but was able to continue with his duties .	His career began to slowly come to an end after Koch suffered a stroke in 1987 .
In addition , four of seven specific criteria should be met , which are : Earlier theorists proposed a personality disorder with a combination of features from borderline personality disorder and avoidant personality disorder , called `` avoidant-borderline mixed personality '' ( AvPD\/BPD ) .	Avoidant personality disorder ( AvPD ) is a type of personality disorder , a long-term mental illness .
In 1926 , Schreck returned to the Kammerspiele in Munich and continued to act in films surviving the advent of sound until his death in 1936 of heart failure .	In 1926 , Schreck returned to the Kammerspiele in Munich .
That evening he felt unwell and the doctor sent him to the hospital where he died early the next morning of a heart attack .	That evening he felt unwell .
She died of an unknown infection on December 17 , 2012 and was survived by three of her four children ( aged 91 , 90 and 84 ) , 7 grandchildren , 7 great-grandchildren , and 12 great-great-grandchildren .	Three of her children were still living at the time of her death , as well as 7 grandchildren , 7 great-grandchildren and 12 great-great-grandchildren .
Both girls caught typhus and Jane nearly died .	Both girls caught typhus and Jane almost died .
Unfortunately , his knee problems struck just as he made the NHL on a full-time basis .	His knee problems struck just as he made the NHL on a full-time basis .
Ekimyan suffered a heart attack and died on April 24 , 1982 in Moscow .	Ekimyan died on April 24 , 1982 .
There are two primary types of vaginal cancer : squamous-cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma .	There are two primary types of vaginal cancer : squamous-cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma .
Surgery alone or surgery combined with pelvic radiation is typically used to treat vaginal cancer .	Surgery alone or surgery combined with pelvic radiation is typically used to treat vaginal cancer .
Vaginal cancer is any type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the vagina .	Vaginal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the vagina .
Primary vaginal cancer is rare in the general population of women and is usually a squamous-cell carcinoma .	Primary vaginal cancer is rare in the general population of women .
From each segmental ganglion a branching system of local nerves runs into the body wall and then encircles the body .	From each segmental ganglion a branching system of local nerves runs into the body wall and then encircles the body .
The rest of the central nervous system is generally `` ladder-like '' , consisting of a pair of nerve cords that run through the bottom part of the body and have in each segment paired ganglia linked by a transverse connection .	The rest of the central nervous system is usually ` ladder-like ' , with a pair of nerve cords that run along the bottom part of the body cavity .
The form of quinine most effective in treating malaria was found by Charles Marie de La Condamine in 1737 .	The best type of quinine used to treat malaria was found by Charles Marie de La Condamine in 1737 .
A historian has stated , `` it was quinine 's efficacy that gave colonists fresh opportunities to swarm into the Gold Coast , Nigeria and other parts of west Africa '' .	A historian said that `` it was quinine ... that gave colonists fresh opportunities to swarm into the Gold Coast , Nigeria and other parts of west Africa '' .
It was first used to treat malaria in Rome in 1631 .	Europeans first reported using quinine against malaria in Rome in 1631 .
The exhibition included exhibits of his inventions , and the city was lit with electric light , thanks to Swan 's invention .	The exhibition included exhibits of his inventions , and the city was lit with electric light , thanks to Swan 's invention .
His house ( in Gateshead , England ) was the first in the world to be lit by lightbulb , and the world 's first electric-light illumination in a public building was for a lecture Swan gave in 1880 .	His house was the first in the world to be lit by electric light bulbs .
When the Tsar was ill with typhoid , the little girl covered a miniature portrait of him with kisses every night .	When her father was ill with typhoid , Maria covered a small picture of him with kisses every night .
Walther Flemming ( 21 April 1843 - 4 August 1905 ) was a German biologist and a founder of cytogenetics .	Walther Flemming ( 21 April 1843 - 4 August 1905 ) was a German biologist and a founder of cytogenetics .
The film was scheduled for release earlier than October 20 , 1946 ( its actual distribution date ) , but that date was postponed due to an epidemic of polio that prevented children across the United States from attending films .	The movie was planned to be released earlier than October 20 , 1946 ( its actual distribution date ) , but that date was delayed due to an epidemic of polio that prevented children across the United States from attending movies .
When light hits the retina , about one-tenth of a second goes by before the brain translates the signal into a visual perception of the world .	When light hits the retina , about one-tenth of a second goes by before the brain translates the signal into a visual perception of the world .
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD , similar to hyperkinetic disorder in the ICD-10 ) is a psychiatric disorder of the neurodevelopmental type in which there are significant problems of attention , hyperactivity , or acting impulsively that are not appropriate for a person 's age .	Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD or ADD ) is kind of a brain problem .
While the resuscitator is being used to save Merrick , Dr. Phillips suffers a heart attack and dies .	While the resuscitator is being used to save Merrick 's life , Dr. Phillips has a heart attack and dies .
This provided cases where behavior that seemed to imply higher mental processes could be explained by simple trial and error learning ( what we would now call operant conditioning ) .	Where behavior seems to imply higher mental processes , it might be explained by trial and error learning .
The city of Portland , Oregon , uses a more complex formula to determine when to open shelters ; factors include wet or dry conditions , the night 's predicted low , the three-day trend of lows , sustained wind speed , and whether snow is on the ground or predicted to fall .	The City of Portland , Oregon , uses a more complicated formula to determine when to open centers ; wet or dry conditions , the night 's predicted low , the three-day trend , wind , and whether snowfall .
He helped to establish the theories that gave rise to the school of Gestalt psychology .	He was one of the founders of Gestalt psychology .
In 1927 , he accepted a position at the Smith College in Northampton , Massachusetts , where he remained until his death in 1941 from Coronary thrombosis Early in Koffka 's life , his uncle , a biologist whose interests were in the fields of Philosophy and Science helped to educate him .	Eventually , in 1927 , he accepted a position at Smith College in Northampton , Massachusetts , where he remained until his death in 1941 .
It is said she had a projecting tooth under the upper lip , and on her right hand six fingers .	She had a projecting tooth under the upper lip , and on her right hand six fingers ( which historians now say is not true ) .
In 1958 , Joshua Lederberg received the Nobel Prize and moved to Stanford University where he was the founder and chairman of the Department of Genetics .	In 1958 , Joshua Lederberg received the Nobel Prize and moved to Stanford University where he was the founder and chairman of the Department of Genetics .
Lederberg and Tatum showed that the bacterium Escherichia coli entered a sexual phase during which it could share genetic information through bacterial conjugation .	Lederberg and Tatum showed that the bacterium Escherichia coli entered a sexual phase during which it could share genetic information through bacterial conjugation .
In a letter to the National Academies of Sciences , he outlined his concerns that extraterrestrial microbes might gain entry to Earth onboard spacecraft , causing catastrophic diseases .	In a letter to the National Academies of Sciences , he outlined his concerns that extraterrestrial microbes might gain entry to Earth onboard spacecraft , causing catastrophic diseases .
The exact mechanisms of migraine are not known .	The exact causes of migraines are not known for sure .
Seasonal affective disorder ( SAD ) , also known as winter depression , winter blues , summer depression , summer blues , or seasonal depression , was considered a mood disorder in which people who have normal mental health throughout most of the year experience depressive symptoms in the winter or summer .	Seasonal affective disorder ( SAD ) is a when you feel sad at a certain time of year , most of the time in winter .
It is used in primary lactose intolerance .	There is no cure for lactose intolerance .
Abdominal compartment syndrome occurs when the abdomen becomes subject to increased pressure .	Abdominal compartment syndrome occurs when the abdominal cavity ( compartment ) within the body becomes subject to increased pressure from within .
Abdominal compartment syndrome follows a destructive pathway similar to compartment syndrome of the extremities .	Abdominal compartment syndrome can be divided into three categories :
He died of tuberculosis at Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna on 22 July 1832 .	Napoléon II died of tuberculosis at Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna on 22 July 1832 .
Using the census data of 1911 for Britain , he showed that there was an inverse relationship between fertility and social class .	Using the census data of 1911 for Britain , he showed that there was an inverse relationship between fertility and social class .
He famously showed that the probability of a mutation increasing the fitness of an organism decreases proportionately with the magnitude of the mutation .	He showed that the probability of a mutation increasing the fitness of an organism decreases proportionately with the magnitude of the mutation .
His work on the theory of population genetics also made him one of the three great figures of that field , together with Sewall Wright and J. B. S. Haldane , and as such was one of the founders of the neo-Darwinian modern evolutionary synthesis .	His work on the theory of population genetics made him one of the three great figures of that field , together with Sewall Wright and J.B.S. Haldane .
He died of senile dementia in the Fremantle Lunatic Asylum ( now the Fremantle Arts Centre building ) on 13 August 1900 , and was buried in Fremantle Cemetery .	He died of senile dementia in the Fremantle Lunatic Asylum ( now the Fremantle Arts Centre building ) on 13 August , 1900 .
Paracelsus thought it could be used in the treatment of epilepsy .	Paracelsus thought it could be used in the treatment of seizures .
Modern medicine , both conventional and alternative , recognizes that the different rheumatic disorders have different causes ( and several of them have multiple causes ) and require different kinds of treatment .	Modern medicine , both conventional and complementary , shows that the different rheumatic disorders have different causes ( and several of them have more than one ) and need different kinds of treatment .
Other rheumatic diseases which are caused by autoimmunity include : A vast number of traditional herbal remedies were recommended for `` rheumatism '' .	The major rheumatic disorders that are known , some are : Many traditional herbal remedies were recommended for `` rheumatism '' .
Rheumatism or rheumatic disorder is a non-specific term for medical problems affecting the joints and connective tissue .	Rheumatism or Rheumatic disorder is a general term for medical problems that can hurt the heart , bones , joints , kidney , skin and lungs .
The study of , and therapeutic interventions in , such disorders is called rheumatology .	The study of these problems is called rheumatology .
Head and neck cancer refers to a group of biologically similar cancers that start in the lip , oral cavity ( mouth ) , nasal cavity ( inside the nose ) , paranasal sinuses , pharynx , and larynx .	Head and neck cancer or throat cancer is a type of cancer which either beings in the lip , oral cavity ( mouth ) , nasal cavity ( inside the nose ) , paranasal sinuses , pharynx , and larynx .
Emergency contraceptives can prevent pregnancy in the few days after unprotected sex .	IUDs do not prevent STDs .
The hair matrix epithelium is one of the fastest growing cell populations in the human body , which is why some forms of chemotherapy or radiotherapy , that kill dividing cells , may lead to temporary hair loss .	The hair matrix epithelium is one of the fastest-growing cell areas in the human body , which is why some forms of chemotherapy which kill dividing cells or radiotherapy may lead to temporary hair loss .
Disease , including cholera and typhoid , was common .	Disease , including dysentery and typhoid were common .
A smoker , he died aged 77 in Guayaquil , on 15 December 2008 at 4:30 pm , of lung cancer and emphysema .	Cordero died on 15 December 2008 in Guayaquil , Ecuador from lung cancer and emphysema , aged 77 .
Anejaculation is the condition of being unable to ejaculate .	A man who is unable to ejaculate at all is said to have anejaculation .
The association publishes various journals and pamphlets , as well as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) .	The group is responsible for writing the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , which is used to diagnose mental illnesses .
Ub Iwerks died in 1971 of a myocardial infarction in Burbank , California , aged 70 .	Ub Iwerks died at age 70 in Burbank , California .
The Medicaid program is only supposed to cover orthodontics if it corrects severe conditions such as cleft lip and palate or complications from another condition , such as Down 's syndrome or muscular dystrophy .	The Medicaid program only allowed braces if the braces helped a major problem like cleft lip and palate , or if it helps a problem caused by an illness , like Down 's syndrome or muscular dystrophy .
These are typically triploid ( containing three sets of chromosomes ) but can vary widely from diploid ( 2n ) to 15n .	These are typically triploid ( containing three sets of chromosomes ) but can vary widely from diploid ( 2n ) to 15n .
Specifically , the experiment tested Alexander Oparin 's and J. B. S. Haldane 's hypothesis that conditions on the primitive Earth favored chemical reactions that synthesized more complex organic compounds from simpler organic precursors .	Specifically , the experiment tested Alexander Oparin 's and J.B.S. Haldane 's hypothesis that conditions on the primitive Earth favored chemical reactions that synthesized organic compounds from inorganic precursors .
On 22 November 2009 he was admitted to the Pichilemu Hospital , and died on 23 November at 14:00 local time , of pneumonia at the age of 88 .	During this time , one of his quotes became famous : On November 21 , 2009 he was taken to Pichilemu Hospital , and died three days later of pneumonia at the age of 88 .
In Bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( Mad Cow Disease ) , native proteins re-fold into a different stable conformation , which causes fatal amyloid buildup .	In Bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( Mad Cow Disease ) , native proteins re-fold into a different stable conformation , which causes fatal amyloid buildup .
Other amyloid diseases , including Alzheimer 's disease and Parkinson 's disease , are also exceptions to Anfinsen 's dogma .	Other amyloid diseases , including Alzheimer 's disease and Parkinson 's disease , are also exceptions to Anfinsen 's dogma .
On the July 2 episode of Superstars it came to light that Punk had suffered a storyline eye injury .	On the July 2 episode of Superstars fans were told that Punk had suffered a storyline eye injury .
In late 117 , while sailing back to Rome , Trajan fell ill and died of a stroke in the city of Selinus .	In late 117 , while sailing back to Rome , Trajan fell ill and died of a stroke in the city of Selinus .
Juniper berries act as a strong urinary tract disinfectant if consumed , and were used by Navajo people as an herbal remedy for diabetes .	Juniper berries act as a strong urinary tract disinfectant if eaten .
Vitamin B12 , the cure for pernicious anemia was shown crystallographically by Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin to consist of a cobalt in a corrin macrocycle .	Vitamin B12 , the cure for pernicious anemia , was shown by crystallography by Dorothy Hodgkin to have a cobalt atom in a corrin macrocycle .
Paul Ehrlich used organoarsenic ( `` arsenicals '' ) for the treatment of syphilis , demonstrating the relevance of metals , or at least metalloids , to medicine , that blossomed with Rosenberg 's discovery of the anti-cancer activity of cisplatin ( cis-PtCl2 ( NH3 ) 2 ) .	Paul Ehrlich used organoarsenic ( `` arsenicals '' ) for the treatment of syphilis .
Rommel , having been in a hospital in Germany at the start of the battle , was forced to return on 25 October 1942 after General Stumme - his replacement as German commander - died of a heart attack in the early hours of the battle .	Rommel , having been in a hospital in Germany at the start of the battle , was forced to return on 25 October 1942 after General Stumme - his replacement as German commander - died of a heart attack in the early hours of the battle .
At one time he contracted tuberculosis and spent a year in a sanitorium .	While there , he became an alcoholic , got tuberculosis and spent a year in a sanitorium .
There are no effective antiviral drugs for the common cold even though some preliminary research has shown benefits .	There are no effective antiviral drugs for the common cold even though some preliminary research has shown benefit .
These infections are then brought home to other members of the family .	These infections are then brought home to other members of the family .
Poor immune function is also a risk factor for disease .	Poor immune function is also a risk factor for disease .
While there are many alternative treatments used for the common cold , there is insufficient scientific evidence to support the use of most .	While there are many alternative treatments used for the common cold , there is not enough scientific evidence to support the use of most treatments .
Antibiotics have no effect against viral infections and thus have no effect against the viruses that cause the common cold .	Antibiotics have no effect against viral infections and thus have no effect against the common cold .
No cure for the common cold exists , but the symptoms can be treated .	There is no cure for the common cold , but the symptoms can be treated .
The common cold ( also known as nasopharyngitis , rhinopharyngitis , acute coryza , head cold , or simply a cold ) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which primarily affects the nose .	The common cold ( also known as nasopharyngitis , rhinopharyngitis , acute coryza , or a cold ) is an easily spread infectious disease of the upper respiratory system .
The common cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract .	The common cold is an easily spread infection of the upper respiratory tract .
In 2009 , Canada restricted the use of over-the-counter cough and cold medication in children six years and under due to concerns regarding risks and unproven benefits .	In 2009 , Canada restricted the use of over-the-counter cough and cold medication in children six years old and younger due to concerns regarding risks and unproven benefits .
Frequently more than one virus is present .	Frequently , more than one virus is present and causing the infection .
While a cough and a fever indicate a higher likelihood of influenza in adults , a great deal of similarity exists between these two conditions .	A cough and a fever indicate a higher likelihood of the flu ( influenza ) in adults .
Due to lack of studies , it is not known whether increased fluid intake improves symptoms or shortens respiratory illness and a similar lack of data exists for the use of heated humidified air .	Due to the lack of studies , it is not known whether drinking more fluids improves symptoms or shortens respiratory illness .
Others include : human coronavirus ( ~ 15 % ) , influenza viruses ( 10-15 % ) , adenoviruses ( 5 % ) , human parainfluenza viruses , human respiratory syncytial virus , enteroviruses other than rhinoviruses , and metapneumovirus .	Other cases may be caused by human parainfluenza viruses , human respiratory syncytial virus , adenoviruses , enteroviruses , and metapneumovirus .
Insufficient sleep and malnutrition have been associated with a greater risk of developing infection following rhinovirus exposure ; this is believed to be due to their effects on immune function .	Lack of sleep and poor nutrition have also been associated with a greater risk of developing infection following rhinovirus exposure .
A number of the viruses that cause the common cold may also result in asymptomatic infections .	A number of the viruses that cause the common cold may also result in no symptoms .
Symptoms include coughing , sore throat , runny nose , sneezing , and fever which usually resolve in seven to ten days , with some symptoms lasting up to three weeks .	The symptoms include cough , painful throat , runny nose ( rhinorrhea ) , and fever .
Vitamin C 's effect on the common cold , while extensively researched , is disappointing , except in limited circumstances , specifically , individuals exercising vigorously in cold environments .	The effect of vitamin C on the common cold , while extensively researched , is disappointing .
Herd immunity , generated from previous exposure to cold viruses , plays an important role in limiting viral spread , as seen with younger populations that have greater rates of respiratory infections .	Thus younger populations have greater rates of respiratory infections and older populations have lower rates of respiratory infections .
It is the most frequent infectious disease in humans with the average adult getting two to three colds a year and the average child getting between six and twelve .	It is the most frequent infectious disease in humans .
A sore throat is present in about 40 % of the cases and a cough in about 50 % , while muscle ache occurs in about half .	Around 40 % of people with colds have a sore throat , while around 50 % have a cough .
Some of the viruses that cause the common colds are seasonal , occurring more frequently during cold or wet weather .	Some common cold viruses are seasonal , found more often in cold or wet weather .
The traditional folk theory is that a cold can be `` caught '' by prolonged exposure to cold weather such as rain or winter conditions , which is how the disease got its name .	This is how the disease got its name .
Rhinovirus-caused colds are most infectious during the first three days of symptoms ; they are much less infectious afterwards .	They are much less infectious afterwards .
A cold usually begins with fatigue , a feeling of being chilled , sneezing and a headache , followed in a couple of days by a runny nose and cough .	A cold usually begins with feeling tired , a feeling of being chilled , sneezing , and a headache .
Well over 200 virus strains are implicated in the cause of the common cold ; the rhinoviruses are the most common .	The rhinovirus is the most common cause of the common cold .
The cough is usually mild compared to that accompanying influenza .	The cough caused by a cold is usually mild compared to a cough caused by the flu ( influenza ) .
Symptoms are mostly due to the body 's immune response to the infection rather than to tissue destruction by the viruses themselves .	The symptoms come from the immune system 's response to the infection , not from direct destruction by the viruses themselves .
The viruses may survive for prolonged periods in the environment ( over 18 hours for rhinoviruses ) and can be picked up by people 's hands and subsequently carried to their eyes or nose where infection occurs .	The viruses may survive for a long time in the environment .
This may occur due to cold induced changes in the respiratory system , decreased immune response , and low humidity increasing viral transmission rates , perhaps due to dry air allowing small viral droplets to disperse farther and stay in the air longer .	Dry air may increase transmission rates by allowing small easily spread droplets to spread farther and stay in the air longer .
The typical symptoms of a cold include cough , runny nose , nasal congestion and a sore throat , sometimes accompanied by muscle ache , fatigue , headache , and loss of appetite .	The most common symptoms of a cold are a cough , runny nose , a stuffy nose , and a sore throat .
Zinc has been used to treat symptoms , with studies suggesting that zinc , if taken within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms , reduces the duration and severity of the common cold in otherwise healthy people .	Zinc supplements may reduce the severity and duration of symptoms when taken within 24 hours of their onset .
Its main goal is to protect public health and safety through the control and prevention of disease , injury , and disability .	It works to protect public health and safety .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is the national public health institute of the United States .	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( or CDC ) are a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services .
It especially focuses its attention on infectious disease , food borne pathogens , environmental health , occupational safety and health , health promotion , injury prevention and educational activities designed to improve the health of United States citizens .	The CDC works on environmental health , occupational safety and health , health promotion , injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States .
Helms died of vascular dementia during the early morning hours of July 4 , 2008 , at the age of 86 .	At last , he was moved to a nursing home near his home in Raleigh , North Carolina On July 4 , 2008 , Helms died of vascular dementia at the age of 86 .
Nancy devoted most of her time to caring for her ailing husband , diagnosed in 1994 with Alzheimer 's disease , until his death in 2004 .	Nancy devoted most of her time to caring for her ill husband who was diagnosed in 1994 with Alzheimer 's disease until his death in 2004 .
He died from complications of Alzheimer 's disease at the age of 77 in Litchfield , Connecticut .	He died from complications of Alzheimer 's disease .
In December 2008 , reports were published of a woman who sent semi-coherent emails while sleepwalking , including one inviting a friend around for dinner and drinks .	In December 2008 , reports were published of a woman who sent semi-coherent emails while sleepwalking , including one inviting a friend around for dinner and drinks .
Sleepwalking may last as little as 30 seconds or as long as 30 minutes .	Sleepwalking may last as little as 30 seconds or as long as 30 minutes .
Although generally sleepwalking cases consist of simple , repeated behaviors , there are occasionally reports of people performing complex behaviors while asleep , although their legitimacy is often disputed .	Generally , sleepwalking cases consist of simple , repeated behaviors ; occasionally there are reports of people performing complex behaviors while asleep , but the legitimacy of these claims is often disputed .
Sleepwalking , also known as somnambulism or noctambulism , is a sleep disorder belonging to the parasomnia family .	Sleepwalking is a disorder in the family of sleeping problems .
The herb má huáng ( 麻黄 , Ephedra sinica ) , used in traditional Chinese medicine , contains ephedrine and pseudoephedrine as its principal active constituents .	The herb má huáng ( 麻黄 , Ephedra sinica ) is used in traditional Chinese medicine .
The penis becomes rigid as a result .	The penis becomes rigid as a result .
The spongy tissue fills with blood , from arteries down the length of the penis .	The spongy tissue fills with blood .
The two corpora cavernosa lie along the penis shaft , from the pubic bones to the head of the penis , where they join .	They are found along the penis shaft , from the pubic bones to the head of the penis .
His An Essay on the Principle of Population observed that sooner or later population will be checked by famine and disease , leading to what is known as a Malthusian catastrophe .	He said that sooner or later population gets checked , by famine , disease , and widespread mortality .
Nishani suffers from a disorder affecting his locomotor system .	Nishani suffers from a disease .
During this time Valdemar is without pulse , heartbeat or perceptible breathing , his skin cold and pale .	During this time Valdemar is without pulse , heartbeat , or breath .
Other types of anal cancer are adenocarcinoma , lymphoma , sarcoma or melanoma .	Other types of anal carcinoma are adenocarcinoma , lymphoma , sarcoma or melanoma .
A study by Jody Hey has indicated that of the people migrating across this land bridge during that time period , only 70 left their genetic print in modern descendants , a minute effective founder population-easily misread as though implying that only 70 people crossed to North America .	A study by Hey has indicated that of the people migrating across this land bridge during that time period , only 70 left their genetic print in modern descendants .
He considered sugar and white flour to be the cause of obesity and he suggested instead protein-rich ingredients .	He considered sugar and white flour to be the cause of obesity and he suggested instead protein-rich ingredients .
The mouth-dwelling parasite Trichomonas gallinae is particularly severe .	The Trichomonas gallinae , a parasite which lives in the mouth , is especially severe .
On their return journey , Scott and his four comrades all died from a combination of exhaustion , starvation and extreme cold .	On the return journey , Scott and his four comrades died from exhaustion , starvation and extreme cold .
Thornton continued to work the blues festival circuit until her death of a heart attack in Los Angeles on July 25 , 1984 , at age 57 .	Thornton died of a heart attack in Los Angeles on 25 July 1984 at the age of 57 .
Smith 's defense psychiatrist diagnosed her with dependent personality disorder and major depression .	Smith 's defense psychiatrist diagnosed her with dependent personality disorder and depression .
There is no antidote , and supportive care is the mainstay of further treatment for intoxication .	There is no antidote .
Climatic diversity and fertility of the land are reflected in the national dishes , which are based on fish from the Caspian Sea , local meat ( mainly mutton and beef ) , and an abundance of seasonal vegetables and greens .	They are based on fish from the Caspian Sea , local meat ( mainly mutton and beef ) , and the many seasonal vegetables and greens .
The hymen is a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening .	The hymen ( also called maidenhead ) is a membrane-like tissue that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening allowing virgins to menstruate .
The most common form of acne is known as acne vulgaris , meaning `` common acne '' .	The most common form of acne is called acne vulgaris , which means `` common acne '' .
Additionally , the DNA differences between head lice and body lice provide corroborating evidence that humans started losing body hair about 2 million years ago .	The DNA differences between head lice and body lice provide corroborating evidence that humans started wearing clothes at approximately 70,000 BCE .
He moved up to the Prince Edward Island Senators of the American Hockey League ( AHL ) in 1994-95 but missed three months of the season after suffering retinal damage to his right eye when he was hit in the face by a stick .	He moved up to the Prince Edward Island Senators of the American Hockey League ( AHL ) in 1994-95 but missed three months of the season after suffering retinal damage to his right eye when he was hit in the face by a stick .
He was critically injured when hit in the throat by the shot which fractured his larynx and resulted in a collapsed lung .	He was critically injured when hit in the throat by the shot which fractured his larynx and resulted in a collapsed lung .
Khan died on the night between 25\/26 December 1942 , of a sudden heart failure , at his home .	He remained in this position from 1937 to December 1942 , when he died of a sudden heart failure .
He died in Boston two years later , on January 29 , 1963 , of complications from prostate surgery .	He died in Boston two years later , on January 29 , 1963 , of complications from prostate surgery .
She is thought to have died from lung disease or tuberculosis .	She is thought to have died from lung disease or tuberculosis .
But a plague , probably smallpox brought by Europeans , decimated the tribe 's population in 1615-1616 .	But a plague , probably smallpox brought by Europeans , killed most of the tribe 's population in 1615-1616 .
There are several related medical conditions , including acne , sebaceous cysts , hyperplasia and sebaceous adenoma .	There are several related medical conditions , including : acne , sebaceous cysts , hyperplasia , sebaceous adenoma and sebaceous gland carcinoma ( see section below : Diseases ) .
Sebaceous glands are also found in hairless areas ( glabrous skin ) of the eyelids , nose , penis , labia minora , the inner membrane of the cheek , and nipples .	Sebaceous glands are also found in non-haired areas ( glabrous skin ) of the eyelids , nose , penis , labia minora , and nipples .
Sapienic acid is a sebum fatty acid that is unique to humans , and is implicated in the development of acne .	In people , the lipid content is as follows : Also , sapienic acid is a sebum fatty acid that is found only in people , not in animals .
Sebaceous glands on the lip and mucosa of the cheek are known as Fordyce spots , and glands on the eyelids are known as meibomian glands .	At the rim of the eyelids , meibomian glands are a specialized form of sebaceous gland .
Strangling does not have to be fatal ; limited or interrupted strangling is practiced in erotic asphyxia , in the choking game , and is an important technique in many combat sports and self-defence systems .	Strangling does not have to be fatal ; limited or interrupted strangling is practiced in erotic asphyxiation , in the so-called `` choking game '' .
Strangling can be divided into three general types according to the mechanism used : Strangling involves one or several mechanisms that interfere with the normal flow of oxygen into the brain : Depending on the particular method of strangulation , one or several of these typically occur in combination ; vascular obstruction is usually the main mechanism .	Strangling can be divided into three general types according to the mechanism used :
During this exile , Quezon became ill with tuberculosis , and later he died of it .	During this exile , Quezon became ill with tuberculosis , and later he died of it .
On May 14 , 2006 , Paul Marco died after a battle with hip problems and chronic illness , at the age of 78 .	On May 14 , 2006 , Paul Marco died after a battle with hip problems and chronic illness .
A man named Arabanoo was captured , but he , like many other Aboriginal people near the settlement , died in a smallpox epidemic a few months later in May 1789 .	A man named Arabanoo was captured , but he died from smallpox a few months later in May 1789 .
Yemmerrawanie died while in Britain after a serious chest infection , and Bennelong 's health deteriorated .	Yemmerrawanie died from a serious chest infection .
In basic terms , pediatricians take care of all of the children 's needs from emotional support to medical support .	Pediatricians take care of diseases that children get .
He was to remain here until his death from a heart attack in 1958 .	He kept living in England until his death from a heart attack in 1958 .
Clinical immunology is the study of diseases caused by disorders of the immune system ( failure , aberrant action , and malignant growth of the cellular elements of the system ) .	Immunology is the study of the immune system .
Castration ( also known as neutering or gonadectomy ) is any action , surgical , chemical or otherwise , by which a biological male loses use of the testes .	Castration is any action , surgical , chemical , or otherwise , by which a male loses the functions of the testes or a female loses the functions of the ovaries .
The Itai-itai disease occurred in Toyama around 1950 .	The Itai-itai disease , whose origin is from polluted water with cadmium , occurred in Toyama around 1950 .
This showed `` to a degree which has never been suspected , what powerful influence upon diseases is produced by mere imagination '' .	It showed `` to a degree which has never been suspected , what powerful influence upon diseases is produced by mere imagination '' .
For much of her adult life , she suffered from bipolar disorder .	Leigh suffered from bipolar disorder and often had tuberculosis .
Coleridge-Taylor was 37 when he died of pneumonia a few days after collapsing at West Croydon railway station .	Coleridge-Taylor was 37 when he died of pneumonia .
The spray from one species , Megacrania nigrosulfurea , is used as a treatment for skin infections by a tribe in Papua New Guinea because of its antibacterial constituents .	The spray from one species , Megacrania nigrosulfurea , is even used as a treatment for skin infections by a tribe in Papua New Guinea by virtue of its antibacterial constituents .
Others estimate 8,000 died within two weeks and another 8,000 or more have since died from gas-related diseases .	A more probable figure is that 8,000 died within two weeks , and it is estimated that an additional 8,000 have since died from gas-related diseases .
Well known nucleases are deoxyribonuclease and ribonuclease .	Well known nucleases are deoxyribonuclease and ribonuclease .
Nucleases are further described by addition of the prefix `` endo '' or `` exo '' to the name : The term `` endonuclease '' applies to nucleases that break nucleic acid chains somewhere in the interior , rather than at the ends , of the molecule .	Endonucleases break nucleic acid chains somewhere in the middle of the molecule .
Pasteur 's later work on diseases included work on chicken cholera .	Pasteur 's later work on diseases included work on chicken cholera .
During this work , a culture of the responsible bacteria had spoiled and failed to induce the disease in some chickens he was infecting with the disease .	During this work , Pasteur noticed how a culture of the responsible bacteria had spoiled , and it failed to induce the disease in some chickens which he was infecting with the disease .
Fingering is the manual ( genital ) manipulation of the clitoris , vulva , vagina , or anus for the purpose of sexual arousal and sexual stimulation .	Fingering is the act of touching of the clitoris , vagina , vulva or anus for the purpose of sexual arousal and stimulation with the fingers .
It is analogous to a handjob , the manual stimulation of the penis .	It is like the handjob ( manual stimulation of the penis ) .
A few years later it lost approximately half of its population to the Black Death .	A few years later Perpignan lost approximately half of its population to the Black Death .
At Snow 's request , the handle of the pump was removed , and new cholera cases ceased almost at once .	At Snow 's request , the handle of the pump was removed , and new cholera cases ceased almost at once .
Further investigation of the area revealed the Broad Street pump was near a cesspit under the home of the outbreak 's first cholera victim .	Further investigation of the area revealed the Broad Street pump was near a cesspit under the home of the outbreak 's first cholera victim .
Though disease had been mapped thematically , Snow 's cholera map in 1854 is the best known example of using thematic maps for analysis .	Snow 's cholera map of 1854 is the best known example of using thematic maps for analysis of data .
Starting with an accurate base map of a London neighborhood which included streets and water pump locations , Snow mapped out the incidents of cholera death .	He started with an accurate map of a London neighborhood which included streets and water pump locations .
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease typically causes a dementia that worsens over weeks to months , being caused by prions .	Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease causes a dementia that gets worse quickly , over weeks or months , and is caused by prions .
On the other hand , encephalopathy or delirium may develop relatively slowly and resemble dementia .	On the other hand , other forms like encephalopathy or delirium may develop relatively slowly , over the years .
Possible causes include brain infection ( viral encephalitis , subacute sclerosing panencephalitis , Whipple 's disease ) or inflammation ( limbic encephalitis , Hashimoto 's encephalopathy , cerebral vasculitis ) ; tumors such as lymphoma or glioma ; drug toxicity ( e.g. anticonvulsant drugs ) ; metabolic causes such as liver failure or kidney failure ; and chronic subdural hematoma .	Possible metabolic causes are such as liver failure or kidney failure ; and chronic subdural hematoma .
Indeed , about 10 % of people with dementia have what is known as mixed dementia , which may be a combination of Alzheimer 's disease and multi-infarct dementia .	The two leading causes of dementia are Alzheimer 's disease and Multi-infarct disease .
The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer 's Dementia ( 75 % ) .	The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer 's disease , which accounts for between 50 and 60 percent of all cases .
Lithium salts affect the central nervous system in a variety of ways .	It affects the central nervous system .
He went on to earn a M.A. degree in experimental psychology in 1976 , and a Ph.D. degree in clinical psychology in 1979 at the University of North Texas , where his dissertation was titled `` Rheumatoid Arthritis : A Psychological Intervention '' .	At the University of North Texas , his dissertation was titled `` Rheumatoid Arthritis : A Psychological Intervention . ''
By 1835 all six daughters had died of varying causes , two when very young , two as children , the other two as young women : from whooping cough , yellow fever , and complications of childbirth .	By 1835 all six daughters had died of many conditions , two when very young , two as children , the other two as young women : from whooping cough , yellow fever , and complications of childbirth .
The kinetoplastids ( also known as ` kinetoplastea ' ) are a group of single-cell flagellate protozoa , including a number of parasites responsible for serious diseases in humans and other animals , as well as various forms found in soil and aquatic environments .	The kinetoplastids are a group of single-cell flagellate Eukaryotes .
Hall would eventually succumb to pneumonia , related to his influenza , in a hospital in Seattle , Washington just five days after the Stanley Cup Final series was abandoned .	Hall would eventually succumb to pneumonia , related to his influenza , in a hospital in Seattle , Washington just five days after the Stanley Cup Final series was abandoned .
The flu was contracted by several players on both the Canadiens and their opponents , the Seattle Metropolitans .	The flu was contracted by several players on both the Canadiens and their opponents , the Seattle Metropolitans .
The Finals were interrupted and eventually canceled due to an outbreak of Spanish influenza .	The Finals were interrupted and eventually canceled due to an outbreak of Spanish influenza .
Olga Alexandrovna said she believed all four of her nieces bled more than was normal and believed they were carriers of the hemophilia gene , like their mother .	Olga Alexandrovna said all four of her nieces bled more than was normal .
Anastasia potentially would have passed on the disease if she had lived to have children .	If Anastasia had lived , she could have passed on the disease to her children .
DNA testing on the remains of the royal family proved conclusively in 2009 that Alexei suffered from Hemophilia B , a rarer form of the disease .	DNA testing on the remains of the royal family proved in 2009 that Alexei suffered from Hemophilia B. His mother and one of his sisters were carriers .
Anastasia 's older sister , Maria , reportedly hemorrhaged in December 1914 during an operation to remove her tonsils , according to her paternal aunt Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia , who was interviewed later in her life .	Anastasia 's older sister , Maria , is said to have hemorrhaged in December 1914 during an operation to remove her tonsils .
Sensing of environments at the cellular level relies on signal transduction ; many disease processes , such as diabetes and heart disease arise from defects in these pathways , highlighting the importance of this process in biology and medicine .	Many disease processes such as diabetes , heart disease , autoimmunity and cancer arise from defects in signal transduction pathways .
It is home to the James Cancer Hospital , a cancer research institute and one of the National Cancer Institute 's forty-one comprehensive cancer centers , along with the Richard M. Ross Heart Hospital , a research institute for cardiovascular disease .	It is home to the James Cancer Hospital , where cancer is studied .
The ethmoid bone ( \/ ˈɛθmɔɪd \/ ; from Greek ethmos , `` sieve '' ) is a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .	The ethmoid bone ( from Greek ethmos , `` sieve '' ) is a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .
Collectively , their work on lepidoptera , and on human blood groups , established the field , and threw light on selection in natural populations where its role had been once doubted .	Collectively , their work on lepidoptera , and on human blood groups , established the field , and threw light on selection in natural populations , where its role had been once doubted .
He was also known for his unusual form of stroke .	He was also known for his unusual form of stroke .
The Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity is a set of principles relating to sexual orientation and gender identity , intended to apply international human rights law standards to address the abuse of the human rights of lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender ( LGBT ) people , and ( briefly ) intersex .	Yogyakarta Principles , formally The Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in Relaion to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity is a international human rights law for the dignity and rights of LGBT people as Principles adopted after an international meeting held by International Commission of Jurists in Yogyakarta of Indonesia from 6 to 9 November 2006 .
However , at the age of 18 , he predeceased his father when he died of typhoid fever .	However , he died before his father because of typhoid fever .
When he died suddenly of heart disease , on 22 June 1874 , he was at his desk writing one of these papers .	When he died suddenly of heart disease , on 22 June 1874 , he was at his desk writing one of these papers .
However after a long , difficult negotiation , which he reported in the Chess Player 's Chronicle , Staunton went to Paris intending to start their third match in October 1844 , but he caught pneumonia while traveling and almost died ; the match was postponed and never took place .	After a long , difficult negotiation , which he reported in the Chess Player 's Chronicle , Staunton went to Paris intending to start their third match in October 1844 , but he caught pneumonia while traveling and almost died ; the match was postponed and never took place .
Saint-Amant wanted a third match , but Staunton was initially unwilling as he had developed heart trouble during the second match .	Saint-Amant wanted a third match , but Staunton was initially unwilling as he had developed heart trouble during the second match .
He attributed much of the change in the structure of his face to puberty , weight loss , a strict vegetarian diet , a change in hair style , and stage lighting .	He said that puberty , weight loss , and his vegetarian diet had changed his face .
On May 16 , 2013 choreographer Wade Robson alleged on The Today Show that Jackson `` performed sexual acts on me and forced me to perform sexual acts on him '' for 7 years , beginning when Robson was 7 years old .	In May 2013 Wade Robson said that Jackson sexually abused him from the age of 7 to 14 .
Jordan Chandler eventually told the police that Jackson had sexually abused him .	He said that Jackson sexually abused him for 7 years .
Not all infectious agents cause disease in all hosts .	These four kinds of infectious agents cause most infectious disease .
Infections are caused by infectious agents such as viruses , viroids , and prions , microorganisms such as bacteria , nematodes such as roundworms and pinworms , arthropods such as ticks , mites , fleas , and lice , fungi such as ringworm , and other macroparasites such as tapeworms .	There are many kinds of infectious agents : viruses , bacteria , parasites , and fungus .
Knievel died of pulmonary disease in Clearwater , Florida , aged 69 .	Knievel died from pulmonary disease caused by diabetes in Clearwater , Florida on November 30 , 2007 , aged 69 .
It has often been reported that in the advanced stages of his arthritis , he painted by having a brush strapped to his paralyzed fingers , but this is erroneous ; Renoir remained able to grasp a brush , although he required an assistant to place it in his hand .	It has often been reported that in the advanced stages of his arthritis , he painted by having a brush strapped to his paralyzed fingers , but this is erroneous ; Renoir remained able to grasp a brush , although he required an assistant to place it in his hand .
Around 1892 , Renoir developed rheumatoid arthritis .	Around 1892 , Renoir developed rheumatoid arthritis .
Renoir painted during the last twenty years of his life even when he was wheelchair-bound and arthritis severely limited his movement .	Renoir painted during the last twenty years of his life , even when arthritis severely limited his movement , and he was wheelchair-bound .
He was the first to describe and define genetic polymorphism , and predicted that human blood group polymorphisms might be maintained in the population by providing some protection against disease .	Ford predicted that human blood group polymorphisms might be maintained in the population by providing some protection against disease .
Body hair may also have been thinner ( most likely naked ) and possibly with increased sweat glands to hasten cooling .	Body hair may also have been thinner to hasten cooling .
From 2000-2011 , Tsien served as Co-Director for the Stanford Brain Research Center .	And since 2000 , Tsien has been the Co-Director for the Stanford Brain Research Centre .
In 1865 , Bernard described the perturbation of this internal state '' ... there are protective functions of organic elements holding living materials in reserve and maintaining without interruption humidity , heat and other conditions indispensable to vital activity .	In 1865 , Bernard described the perturbation of this internal state '' ... there are protective functions of organic elements holding living materials in reserve and maintaining without interruption humidity , heat and other conditions indispensable to vital activity .
Interest in the relationship between psychiatric syndromes or symptoms and immune function has been a consistent theme since the beginning of modern medicine .	Interest in the relationship between psychiatric syndromes or symptoms and immune function has been a consistent theme since the beginning of modern medicine .
In 1975 Robert Ader and Nicholas Cohen at the University of Rochester advanced PNI with their demonstration of classic conditioning of immune function , and coined the term `` psychoneuroimmunology '' .	In 1975 Robert Ader and Nicholas Cohen advanced PNI with a demonstration of classic conditioning of the immune function , and coined the term `` psychoneuroimmunology '' .
These studies into the relationship between the effects of emotions and perceptions on the autonomic nervous system , namely the sympathetic and parasympathetic responses that initiated the recognition of the freeze , fight or flight response .	These studies into the relationship between the effects of emotions and perceptions on the autonomic nervous system , the responses that led to the freeze , fight or flight response .
The hyoid bone provides attachment to the muscles of the floor of the mouth and the tongue above , the larynx below , and the epiglottis and pharynx behind .	The hyoid bone provides attachment to the muscles of the floor of the mouth and the tongue above , the larynx below , and the epiglottis and pharynx behind .
The hyoid is anchored by muscles from the anterior , posterior and inferior directions , and aids in tongue movement and swallowing .	The hyoid aids in tongue movement and swallowing .
He is buried at Kensal Green Cemetery .	He died in London on 5 June 1866 from a stroke and was buried in the Kensal Green Cemetery .
He is also considered one of the founders of social medicine .	Referred to as `` the father of pathology , '' he is considered one of the founders of social medicine .
When recording the 2005 single `` Signs '' with Snoop Dogg , Timberlake discovered a throat condition .	When recording the 2005 single `` Signs '' with Snoop Dogg , Timberlake discovered a throat condition .
He traveled to Spain in 1826 , but returned to Bordeaux , where he died of a stroke in 1828 , at the age of 82 .	For two years Goya lived in France but returned to Spain where he was warmly welcomed home in 1826 , He died in 1828 at the age of 82 .
Sulston played a central role in both the Caenorhabditis elegans worm and human genome sequencing projects .	Sulston played a central role in both the Caenorhabditis elegans roundworm and human genome sequencing projects .
On December 23 , 1992 , Hazel died from internal bleeding and liver failure .	In 1992 Eddie Hazel died from internal bleeding and his liver failed .
Hearing loss , hearing impairment , or deafness , is a partial or total inability to hear .	Deafness is also known as ` hearing loss ' .
Anosmia may very occasionally be an early sign of a degenerative brain disease such as Parkinson 's disease and Alzheimer 's disease .	Anosmia can also point to different neurological conditions such as Parkinson 's disease , Alzheimer 's disease , or Schizophrenia .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau died of a heart attack on 25 June 1997 in Paris , aged 87 .	Jacques-Yves Cousteau died on 25 June 1997 in Paris , aged 87 from a heart attack .
A year later Finlay identified a mosquito of the genus Aedes as the organism transmitting yellow fever .	A year later Finlay identified the mosquito of the genus Aedes as the insect transmitting yellow fever .
Carlos Juan Finlay ( December 3 , 1833 - August 20 , 1915 ) was a Cuban physician and scientist recognized as a pioneer in the research of yellow fever .	Carlos Juan Finlay ( December 3 , 1833 - August 20 , 1915 ) was a Cuban physician and scientist who started the interest in yellow fever research .
His theory that an intermediary host was responsible for the spread of the disease was treated with ridicule for years .	His theory was that an intermediary host was responsible for the spread of the disease .
His theory was followed by the recommendation to control the mosquito population as a way to control the spread of the disease .	His research led to the control of the mosquito population as a way to control the spread of the disease .
He was the first to theorize , in 1881 , that a mosquito was a carrier , now known as a disease vector , of the organism causing yellow fever : a mosquito that bites a victim of the disease could subsequently bite and thereby infect a healthy person .	He was the first to come up with the idea that a mosquito was a carrier for a disease that causes yellow fever .
Glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies are commonly found in diabetes mellitus type 1 .	There are glutamic acid decarboxylase ( GAD ) antibodies connected with the latent autoimmune diabetes .
Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults ( LADA ) , often also late-onset autoimmune diabetes of adulthood or aging , slow onset type 1 diabetes or diabetes type 1.5 is a form of diabetes mellitus type 1 that occurs in adults , often with a slower course of onset .	Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults ( LADA ) is very similar to both Type 1 diabetes and Type 2 diabetes : although the disease is autoimmune , insulin resistance accompanies the disease as it does Type 2 diabetes .
This sickling occurs because of a mutation in the hemoglobin gene .	The sickling occurs because of a single point mutation in the gene for the beta chain of hemoglobin .
Sickle-cell disease occurs more commonly among people whose ancestors lived in tropical and sub-tropical sub-saharan regions where malaria is or was common .	Sickle-cell disease occurs more commonly in people ( or their descendants ) from parts of tropical and sub-tropical regions where malaria is or was common .
Sickle-cell disease ( SCD ) , or sickle-cell anemia ( SCA ) or drepanocytosis , is a hereditary blood disorder , characterized by red blood cells that assume an abnormal , rigid , sickle shape .	The red blood cells take up an abnormal , rigid , sickle shape .
Life expectancy is shortened .	In the full ( homozygous ) disease life expectancy is shortened , in fact it is near-fatal in pre-modern societies .
Sickle-cell anemia is a form of sickle-cell disease in which there is homozygosity for the mutation that causes HbS .	Sickle cell anemia is a genetic disease .
Nilsson died of heart failure on January 15 , 1994 in his Agoura Hills , California home .	Nilsson died of heart failure in Agoura Hills , California .
Combat stress reaction is generally short-term and should not be confused with acute stress disorder , post-traumatic stress disorder , or other long-term disorders attributable to combat stress , although any of these may commence as a combat stress reaction .	Combat stress reaction can often become post-traumatic stress disorder .
Stone died on 6 December 1991 .	Stone died on 6 December 1991 in Cambridge , England from pneumonia , aged 78 .
In 2004 , both Gerty and Carl Cori were designated a National Historic Chemical Landmark in recognition of their work in clarifying carbohydrate metabolism .	In 2004 , their work was designated an ACS National Historical Chemical Landmark for carbohydrate metabolism .
She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 1991 .	In 1991 , Poly Styrene was diagnosed with bipolar disorder .
Processing and Distribution Center , the postal mail sorting facility through which anthrax-contaminated mail addressed to two members of the U.S. Senate passed in the 2001 anthrax attacks .	It was the postal mail sorting facility through which anthrax-contaminated mail addressed to two members of the U.S. Senate passed in the 2001 anthrax attacks .
The 633,000-square-foot ( 58,800 m2 ) facility was closed October 21 , 2001 , because of anthrax contamination and did not reopen until December 21 , 2003 .	The 633,000 square foot facility was closed October 21 , 2001 , because of anthrax contamination and did not reopen until December 21 , 2003 .
It is best known as the site of the Joseph Curseen Jr. and Thomas Morris Jr. .	The Post Office is now named after Joseph Curseen Jr. and Thomas Morris Jr. , who were postal workers who died after exposure to the anthrax in the incident .
Because of this highly modified system of host immunosuppression , a high level of parasitoid-host specificity is not surprising .	Because of this highly modified system of host immunosuppression , a high level of parasitoid-host specificity is not surprising .
Bacteria make up most of the flora in the colon and up to 60 % of the dry mass of feces .	Bacteria make up most of the flora in the colon and up to 60 % of the dry mass of faeces .
However , in certain conditions , some species are thought to be capable of causing disease by producing infection or increasing cancer risk for the host .	However , in some conditions , some species can cause disease by producing an infection or increasing cancer risk for the host .
Archivists must also select records valuable enough to justify the costs of storage and preservation , plus the labor-intensive expenses of arrangement , description , and reference service .	Archivists must also select records valuable enough to justify the costs of storage and preservation , plus the labor intensive expenses of arrangement , description , and reference service .
While the cause of death was originally thought to be dysentery , scientists have now concluded that Agnès died of mercury poisoning .	While the cause of death was originally thought to be dysentery .
Prevention is by vaccinating for canine adenovirus , distemper , parainfluenza , and Bordetella .	Prevention is by vaccinating for canine adenovirus , distemper , parainfluenza , and Bordetella .
Antibiotics are given to treat any bacterial infection present .	Antibiotics are given to treat any bacterial infection present .
Symptoms can include a harsh , dry cough , retching , sneezing , snorting , gagging or vomiting in response to light pressing of the trachea or after excitement or exercise .	Symptoms can include a harsh , dry coughing , retching , sneezing , snorting , gagging or vomiting in response to light pressing of the trachea or after excitement or exercise .
The lower anterior margin of the orbit ( jugal ) is raised and its mandibular symphysis is extremely long , extending to the 23rd or 24th tooth .	The gharial 's lower anterior margin of orbit ( jugal ) is raised and its mandibular symphysis is extremely long , extending to the 23rd or 24th tooth .
Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all varieties of gastrointestinal ailments .	Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all types of gastrointestinal ailments .
Aulus Cornelius Celsus prescribes saffron in medicines for wounds , cough , colic , and scabies , and in the mithridatium .	Aulus Cornelius Celsus prescribes saffron in medicines for wounds , cough , colic , and scabies , and in the mithridatium .
Traditionally credited to the fabled Yan ( `` Fire '' ) Emperor ( 炎帝 ) Shennong , it discusses 252 phytochemical-based medical treatments for various disorders .	Traditionally attributed to the legendary Yan ( `` Fire '' ) Emperor ( 炎帝 ) Shennong , it documents 252 phytochemical-based medical treatments for various disorders .
Ancient perfumers in Egypt , physicians in Gaza , townspeople in Rhodes , and the Greek hetaerae courtesans used saffron in their scented waters , perfumes and potpourris , mascaras and ointments , divine offerings , and medical treatments .	Ancient Mediterranean peoples-including perfumers in Egypt , physicians in Gaza , townspeople in Rhodes , and the Greek hetaerae courtesans-used saffron in their perfumes , ointments , potpourris , mascaras , divine offerings , and medical treatments .
The 14th-century Black Death caused demand for saffron-based medicaments to peak , and Europe imported large quantities of threads via Venetian and Genoan ships from southern and Mediterranean lands such as Rhodes .	Much saffron had to be imported by Venetian and Genoan ships from southern and Mediterranean lands such as Rhodes .
Likewise , Mayhem guitarist Øystein ` Euronymous ' Aarseth once said : `` I honestly think Dead is mentally insane .	He was described by Jan Axel `` Hellhammer '' Blomberg , the drummer for Mayhem , as being `` a very strange personality ... depressed , melancholic , and dark '' and guitarist Øystein ` Euronymous ' Aarseth said `` I honestly think Dead is mentally insane .
On January 22 , 2010 , Hamlin tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee while playing basketball .	On January 22 , 2010 , Denny Hamlin tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee while playing basketball .
Hamlin announced on March 27 , 2010 to have surgery on his left knee the following Monday .	On March 27 , 2010 Hamlin said he was going to have surgery on his left knee the next Monday .
He died on February 20 , 2014 of kidney failure in Long Beach , California .	He died on February 20 , 2014 of kidney failure in Long Beach , California , aged 92 .
A well-studied case is that of sickle cell anemia in humans , a hereditary disease that damages red blood cells .	A well-studied case is that of sickle cell anemia in humans , a hereditary disease that damages red blood cells .
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage ( a higher fitness ) wherever malaria exists .	The heterozygote has a permanent advantage ( a higher fitness ) wherever malaria exists .
A person who inherits the sickle cell gene from one parent and a normal hemoglobin allele ( HgbA ) from the other , has a normal life expectancy .	A person who inherits the sickle cell gene from one parent , and a normal hemoglobin gene ( HgbA ) from the other , has a normal life expectancy .
The heterozygote is resistant to the malarial parasite which kills a large number of people each year .	The heterozygote is resistant to the malarial parasite which kills a large number of people each year .
Sickle cell anemia is caused by the inheritance of an allele ( HgbS ) of the hemoglobin gene from both parents .	Sickle cell anemia is caused by the inheritance of a variant hemoglobin gene ( HgbS ) from both parents .
In such individuals , the hemoglobin in red blood cells is extremely sensitive to oxygen deprivation , which results in shorter life expectancy .	In these individuals , hemoglobin in red blood cells is extremely sensitive to oxygen deprivation , and this causes shorter life expectancy .
Bridgeport Hospital said 26 people were treated there , of whom three were admitted , two in critical condition and one in stable condition .	One person is in critical condition at Bridgeport Hospital in Bridgeport , Connecticut as of May 19 , 2013 .
Commonly recognized categories include specific phobias , generalized anxiety disorder , social anxiety disorder , panic disorder , agoraphobia , obsessive-compulsive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder .	According to the President 's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health in the US , the most common type of disability in the United States is major mental illnesses ( which include major depression , bipolar disorder , personality disorders , body dysmorphic disorder , schizophrenia , and obsessive-compulsive disorder ) .
Mikhail Bulgakov died from nephrosclerosis ( an inherited kidney disorder ) on March 10 , 1940 .	He died from nephrosclerosis ( an inherited kidney disorder ) on 10 March 1940 .
His father had died of the same disease , and from his youth Bulgakov had guessed his future mortal diagnosis .	His father died of the same disease , and Bulgakov had long expected his fate .
Flora Thompson died in 1947 of a heart attack in Brixham , Devon and is buried at Longcross Cemetery , Dartmouth , Devon .	Flora Thompson died in 1947 in Brixham , Devon and is buried at Longcross Cemetery , Dartmouth , Devon .
However , he became ill with the Spanish flu and later contracted tuberculosis .	He became ill with the Spanish flu and later got tuberculosis .
He was a disabled veteran of World War I , a victim of tuberculosis , and a Communist , but he pulled strings in order to be admitted .	He was a disabled veteran of World War I , and a victim of tuberculosis , but he was allowed to join .
In 2011 , Cellucci announced he had been diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( also known as Lou Gehrig 's disease ) .	On January 6 , 2011 , Cellucci announced his amyotrophic lateral sclerosis diagnosis , and that it was progressing relatively slowly .
` Abdus-Samad died of acute hepatitis on Wednesday , November 30 , 1988 , and is survived by his three sons ( from oldest to the youngest ) : Yasir , Hisham , and Tariq .	` Abd us-Samad died on 30 December 1988 , and is survived by his three sons ( from oldest to the youngest ) : Yasir , Hisham , and Tariq .
He died on 7 September 1997 , in Rabat , Morocco , from prostate cancer .	Mobutu died in 1997 of prostate cancer in Morocco .
Within a brief period , he suffered a mild stroke , his daughter Adèle 's internment in an insane asylum , and the death of his two sons .	Within a brief period , he suffered a mild stroke , his daughter Adèle 's internment in an insane asylum , and the death of his two sons .
Marchers stretched from Avenue d'Eylau , where the author was living , down the Champs-Élysées , and all the way to the center of Paris .	Marchers stretched from Avenue d'Eylau , down the Champs-Élysées , and all the way to the center of Paris .
Victor Hugo 's death from pneumonia on 22 May 1885 , at the age of 83 , generated intense national mourning .	His death generated intense national mourning .
But mania is most often associated with bipolar disorder , where episodes of mania may alternate with episodes of major depression .	In bipolar disorder , there are episodes of mania that alternate with ones of clinical depression .
Coronary artery disease has a number of well determined risk factors .	Coronary heart disease , also called coronary artery disease , is a heart disease .
Coronary artery disease ( CAD ) also known as atherosclerotic heart disease , coronary heart disease , or ischemic heart disease ( IHD ) , is the most common type of heart disease and cause of heart attacks .	Atherosclerosis is a form of heart disease .
While the symptoms and signs of coronary artery disease are noted in the advanced state of disease , most individuals with coronary artery disease show no evidence of disease for decades as the disease progresses before the first onset of symptoms , often a `` sudden '' heart attack , finally arises .	Coronary heart disease is the most common cause of sudden death .
Lipscomb resided in Cambridge , Massachusetts until his death in 2011 from pneumonia .	Lipscomb went to live in Cambridge , Massachusetts until his death in 2011 from pneumonia .
Farina died on July 22 , 2013 , in a hospital in Scottsdale , Arizona after suffering a pulmonary embolism .	Farina died on July 22 , 2013 in a hospital in Scottsdale , Arizona from a pulmonary embolism .
It is possible for the frenulum of the penis to tear during sexual activity .	It is possible for the frenulum of the penis to tear during sexual activity .
The word frenulum on its own is often used for the frenulum of prepuce of penis , which is an elastic band of tissue under the glans penis that connects to the prepuce , or foreskin to the vernal mucosa , and helps contract the prepuce over the glans .	This is an elastic band of tissue under the glans penis that connects to the prepuce , or foreskin to the vernal mucosa .
Chapman died of a heart attack in 1982 at the age of 54 , having begun life an innkeeper 's son and ended a multi-millionaire industrialist in post-war Britain .	Chapman died of a heart attack in 1982 at the age of 54 .
Four caffeine-induced disorders are recognized by the American Psychiatric Association ( APA ) including : caffeine intoxication , caffeine-induced sleep disorder , caffeine-induced anxiety disorder and caffeine-related disorder not otherwise specified ( NOS ) .	It is called : Caffeine-Induced Organic Mental Disorder or Caffeine Intoxication .
The Black Death which afflicted most parts of Europe from 1347 to 1351 affected Poland less severely .	The Black Death , which affected many parts of Europe from 1347 to 1351 , did not come to Poland .
John Harvey Kellogg ( February 26 , 1852 - December 14 , 1943 ) was an American medical doctor in Battle Creek , Michigan , who ran a sanitarium using holistic methods , with a particular focus on nutrition , enemas and exercise .	John Harvey Kellogg ( February 26 , 1852 - December 14 , 1943 ) was an American medical doctor and founder of frosted corn flakes cereal .
Nutrition guides typically divide foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet .	People have written nutrition guides to put different foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet .
Held in Seattle , the two teams were tied in the best-of-five series when it was canceled due to the Spanish flu epidemic , the first time the Stanley Cup was not awarded .	Held in Seattle , the two teams were tied in the best of five series when it was canceled due to the Spanish flu epidemic , the first time the Stanley Cup was not awarded .
The day after the game , Vézina was diagnosed with tuberculosis and advised to return home .	The day after the game , Vézina was diagnosed with tuberculosis and advised to return home .
It was reported that Jordan Chandler claimed that Jackson was circumcised .	Chandler said that Jackson was circumcised , but he was not .
These chromosomes determine the sex of an individual when reproducing .	Sex chromosomes are chromosomes which determine the sex of individual organisms .
In this broader sense , it sometimes includes injuries , disabilities , disorders , syndromes , infections , isolated symptoms , deviant behaviors , and atypical variations of structure and function , while in other contexts and for other purposes these may be considered distinguishable categories .	The term is sometimes used broadly to include injuries , disabilities , disorders , syndromes , infections , symptoms , deviant behaviors , and atypical variations of structure and function , while in other contexts these may be considered separate categories .
In humans , `` disease '' is often used more broadly to refer to any condition that causes pain , dysfunction , distress , social problems , or death to the person afflicted , or similar problems for those in contact with the person .	A disease or medical condition is a weird occurrence of the body or mind that causes pain , discomfort , distress , or death to the person who has the disease .
In 2005 , the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Marshall and Robin Warren , his long-time collaborator , `` for their discovery of the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and its role in gastritis and peptic ulcer disease '' .	In 2005 , the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm gave the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Dr. Marshall and Dr. Warren for finding the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and its part in gastritis and peptic ulcer disease .
He met Robin Warren , a pathologist interested in gastritis , during internal medicine fellowship training at Royal Perth Hospital in 1981 .	At the hospital he met Robin Warren , a pathologist who was interested in gastritis .
Marshall 's illness and recovery , based on a culture of organisms extracted from a patient , fulfilled Koch 's postulates for H. pylori and gastritis , but not for peptic ulcer .	His illness and recovery , showed the link between H. pylori and gastritis , but not for peptic ulcer .
Interestingly , Marshall did not develop antibodies to H. pylori , suggesting that innate immunity can sometimes eradicate acute H. pylori infection .	He did not develop antibodies to H. pylori .
In 1982 , they performed the initial culture of H. pylori and developed their hypothesis related to the bacterial cause of peptic ulcer and gastric cancer .	They worked on their idea that there was a bacterial cause of peptic ulcer and stomach cancer .
Marshall and Robin Warren showed that the bacterium Helicobacter pylori ( H. pylori ) is the cause of most peptic ulcers , reversing decades of medical doctrine holding that ulcers were caused by stress , spicy foods , and too much acid .	This changed years of medical belief which said that ulcers were caused by stress , spicy foods , and too much acid .
In the summer of 1633 , Samuel Fuller fell ill with a sickness ( `` infectious fever '' ) that had spread through Plymouth by autumn .	In the summer of 1633 , Fuller fell ill with a sickness that had spread through Plymouth .
The campaign is dedicated to raising awareness of handwashing with soap as a key approach to disease prevention .	The campaign 's goal is to raise awareness of handwashing with soap as a key way to prevent diseases .
Global Handwashing Day ( GHD ) is a campaign to motivate and mobilize millions around the world to wash their hands with soap .	Global Handwashing Day is a campaign to encourage people around the world to wash their hands with soap .
GHD was created at the annual World Water Week 2008 , which was held in Stockholm from August 17 to 23 and initiated by the Public Private Partnership for Handwashing ( PPPHW ) .	Out of this week came the Public Private Partnership for Handwashing ( PPPHW ) .
In 2010 , scientists at the J. Craig Venter Institute , announced that they had created the first synthetic bacterial genome , and added it to a cell containing no DNA .	The J. Craig Venter Institute has built a quasi-synthetic Mycoplasma genitalium yeast genome .
He returned to New York City , and died there of Bright 's disease in May 1881 .	He returned to New York City , and died there of Bright 's disease in May 1881 .
Only Benedict and his sister Hannah survived to adulthood ; his other siblings succumbed to yellow fever in childhood .	Only Benedict and his sister Hannah survived to adulthood ; his other brothers and sisters died of yellow fever in childhood .
The authors also believe that clean coal is an oxymoron for a myriad of reasons , including the sheer number of coal mine-related deaths and the fact that coal-fired plants , even some cleaner ones , are major contributors to serious illnesses such as asthma , heart disease , and mercury poisoning .	The authors also believe that clean coal is an oxymoron for a myriad of reasons , including the sheer number of coal mine-related deaths and the fact that coal-fired plants , even some cleaner ones , are major contributors to serious illnesses such as asthma , heart disease , and mercury poisoning .
Augustana currently has approximately sixty academic programs including nine pre-professional and eight interdisciplinary programs : Academic Programs Accounting , Africana Studies , Anthropology , Applied Mathematics , Art , Art History , Astronomy , Biochemistry , Biology , Business Administration , Chinese , Chemistry , Classics , Communication Sciences & Disorders ( including Speech Pathology and Audiology ) , Communication Studies , Computer Science , Creative Writing , Economics , Education , Engineering , Engineering Physics , English , French , Geography , Geology , German , Graphic Design , History , International Business , Japanese , Landscape Architecture , Mathematics , Multimedia Journalism , Music , Neuroscience , Philosophy , Physics , Political Science , Psychology , Religion , Scandinavian , Sociology , Spanish , Theatre , World Literature Pre-Professional Programs Dentistry , Law , Medicine , Nursing , Occupational Therapy , Optometry , Pharmacy , Physical Therapy , Veterinary Medicine Interdisciplinary Programs Africana Studies , Asian Studies , Environmental Management & Forestry , Environmental Studies , Latin American Studies , Medieval & Renaissance Studies , Neuroscience , Women 's & Gender Studies Old Main was constructed between 1884 and 1893 .	Augustana has about sixty academic programs including nine pre-professional and eight interdisciplinary programs : Accounting , Africana Studies , Anthropology , Art , Art History , Astronomy , Biochemistry , Biology , Business Administration , Chinese , Chemistry , Classics , Communication Sciences & Disorders ( including Speech Pathology and Audiology ) , Communication Studies , Computer Science , Creative Writing , Economics , Education , Engineering , Engineering Physics , English , French , Geography , Geology , German , Graphic Design , History , International Business , Japanese , Landscape Architecture , Mathematics , Multimedia Journalism , Music , Neuroscience , Philosophy , Physics , Political Science , Psychology , Religion , Scandinavian , Sociology , Spanish , Theatre , World Literature Dentistry , Law , Medicine , Nursing , Occupational Therapy , Optometry , Pharmacy , Physical Therapy , Veterinary Medicine Africana Studies , Asian Studies , Environmental Management and Forestry , Environmental Studies , Latin American Studies , Medieval and Renaissance Studies , Neuroscience , Women 's and Gender Studies Old Main was constructed between 1884 and 1893 .
Microorganisms that cause disease are called pathogens , and the diseases they cause are called infectious diseases .	It says that small organisms ( called germs ) , also known as microbes , cause diseases .
The germ theory of disease states that some diseases are caused by microorganisms .	The Germ theory of disease is a theory in biology .
There he discovered two skull fragments without the Australopithecine sagittal crest , which Mary connected with Broom 's and Robinson 's Telanthropus .	There he discovered two skull fragments without the Australopithecine sagittal crest , which Mary connected with Broom 's and Robinson 's Telanthropus .
Reich-Ranicki died on 18 September 2013 in Frankfurt , having previously been diagnosed with prostate cancer .	Reich-Ranicki died on 18 September 2013 in Frankfurt , having previously been diagnosed with prostate cancer .
Clokey died in his sleep on January 8 , 2010 , at age 88 , at his home in Los Osos , California after suffering from a recurrent bladder infection .	Clokey died on January 8 , 2010 , at his home in Los Osos , California .
He returned to his house to lie down and soon fell into a coma .	He returned to his house to lie down .
People `` grew hysterical with fear with the incidence of unknown ` mysterious ' diseases breaking out .	People grew hysterical with fear because unknown ` mysterious ' diseases were breaking out .
Factor VIII ( FVIII ) is an essential blood-clotting protein , also known as anti-hemophilic factor ( AHF ) .	Factor VIII ( FVIII ) is a blood clotting factor that is also called anti-hemophilic factor ( AHF ) .
Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A , a recessive X-linked coagulation disorder .	If there is something wrong with this gene , you get hemophilia A , which is a recessive disorder .
In thalassemia , the disorder is caused by the weakening and destruction of red blood cells .	In thalassemia , the disease is caused by the weakening and destruction of red blood cells .
In that respect , the various thalassemias resemble another genetic disorder affecting hemoglobin , sickle-cell disease .	In that respect , thalassemia resembles another genetic disorder affecting hemoglobin , sickle-cell disease .
Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen .	Haemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells which carries oxygen .
People with thalassemia make less hemoglobin and have fewer circulating red blood cells than normal , which results in mild or severe anemia .	People with thalassemia make less hemoglobin and fewer circulating red blood cells than normal , which results in mild or severe anemia .
Thalassemia can cause significant complications , including iron overload , bone deformities and cardiovascular illness .	Thalassemia can cause significant complications , including pneumonia , iron overload , bone deformities and cardiovascular illness .
However this same inherited disease of red blood cells may confer a degree of protection against malaria , which is or was prevalent in the regions where the trait is common .	However , this inherited disease of red blood cells gives a degree of protection against malaria , which is or was common in the regions where the trait is common .
Thalassemia is caused by variant or missing genes that affect how the body makes hemoglobin .	This is caused by mutant genes which affect how the body makes hemoglobin .
Thalassemia ( British English : thalassemia ) are forms of inherited autosomal recessive blood disorders that originated in the Mediterranean region .	Thalassemia ( or thalassemia ) is a genetic disorder of the blood which originated in the Mediterranean region .
Some parasitic forms affect humans and other mammals , causing damage by their feeding , and can even be vectors of diseases such as scrub typhus , rickettsialpox , Lyme disease , Q fever , Colorado tick fever , tularemia , tick-borne relapsing fever , babesiosis , ehrlichiosis and tick-borne meningoencephalitis .	Some parasitic forms affect humans and other mammals , causing damage by their feeding , and can even be vectors of diseases such as scrub typhus and rickettsia .
A well known effect of mites on humans is their role as an allergen and the stimulation of asthma in people affected by respiratory disease .	A well-known effect of mites on humans is as an allergen which stimulates asthma .
Sorkin 's hectic writing schedule often led to cost overruns and schedule slips , and he opted to leave the show after the fourth season , following increasing personal problems , including an arrest for possession of hallucinogenic mushrooms .	Sorkin 's hectic writing schedule often led to cost overruns and schedule slips , and he opted to leave the show after the fourth season , following increasing personal problems , including an arrest for possession of illegal drugs .
John Spencer died of a heart attack on December 16 , 2005 , about a year after his character experienced a nearly fatal heart attack on the show .	John Spencer , who played Leo McGarry , died from a heart attack on December 16 , 2005 - about a year after his character experienced a nearly fatal heart attack on the show .
The series stars Andrew Lincoln as sheriff 's deputy Rick Grimes , who awakens from a coma to find a post-apocalyptic world dominated by flesh-eating zombies .	The series stars Andrew Lincoln as sheriff 's deputy Rick Grimes .
Klein died of complications of Alzheimer 's disease in New York City on July 4 , 2009 .	Klein died in Manhattan of complications from Alzheimer 's disease in July 2009 .
Problem gambling is associated with increased suicidal ideation and attempts compared to the general population .	Problem gambling is often associated with increased suicidal ideation and attempts compared to the general population .
Substance abuse is the second most common risk factor for suicide after major depression and bipolar disorder .	Substance abuse is the second most common risk factor for suicide after major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder .
It is the second most common autosomal trisomy , after Down syndrome , that carries to term .	It is the second most common autosomal trisomy , after Down Syndrome , that carries to term .
One percent of children live to age 10 , typically in less severe cases of the mosaic Edwards syndrome .	One percent of children born with this syndrome live to age ten , typically in cases of the less severe mosaic Edwards syndrome .
It is named after John Hilton Edwards , who first described the syndrome in 1960 .	It is named after John H. Edwards , who first described the syndrome in 1960 .
The syndrome has a very low rate of survival , resulting from heart abnormalities , kidney malformations , and other internal organ disorders .	People with Edwards syndrome often have heart abnormalities , kidney malformations , and other internal organ disorders .
A small percentage of cases occur when only some of the body 's cells have an extra copy of chromosome 18 , resulting in a mixed population of cells with a differing number of chromosomes .	`` Normal '' people have two copies of the chromosome .
The eye must be protected from drying up , or the cornea may be permanently damaged resulting in impaired vision .	The eye must be protected from drying up , or the cornea may be permanently damaged resulting in impaired vision .
The hallmark of this condition is a rapid onset of partial or complete paralysis that often occurs overnight .	The hallmark of this condition is a rapid start of partial or complete paralysis that often occurs overnight .
Several conditions can cause facial paralysis , e.g. , brain tumor , stroke , myasthenia gravis , and Lyme disease .	Several conditions can cause facial paralysis , e.g. , brain tumor , stroke , and Lyme disease .
Corticosteroids have been found to improve outcomes , when used early , while anti-viral drugs have not .	Corticosteroids ( cortisone steroids ) have been found to improve the condition while anti-viral drugs have not .
It is thought that an inflammatory condition leads to swelling of the facial nerve .	It is thought that an inflammation leads to swelling of the facial nerve .
Named after Scottish anatomist Charles Bell , who first described it , Bell 's palsy is the most common acute mononeuropathy ( disease involving only one nerve ) and is the most common cause of acute facial nerve paralysis ( ) 80 % ) .	Bell 's palsy is named after Scottish anatomist Charles Bell , who first described it .
Bell 's palsy is a form of facial paralysis resulting from a dysfunction of the cranial nerve VII ( the facial nerve ) causing an inability to control facial muscles on the affected side .	It is caused because cranial nerve VII ( the facial nerve ) stops conducting to the facial muscles .
In endemic areas Lyme disease may be the most common cause of facial palsy .	It is the most common acute disease involving only one nerve , and is the most common cause of sudden facial nerve paralysis .
In this mode , a particular exon may be included in mRNAs under some conditions or in particular tissues , and omitted from the mRNA in others .	An exon may be included in mRNAs under some conditions or in particular tissues , and omitted from the mRNA in others .
Abnormal variations in splicing are also implicated in disease ; a large proportion of human genetic disorders result from splicing variants .	Many human genetic disorders come from splicing variants .
Abnormal splicing variants are also thought to contribute to the development of cancer , although such aberrant splicoforms are , under normal conditions , usually safeguarded and eliminated by a posttranscriptional quality control mechanism .	Abnormal splicing variants may also contribute to the development of cancer .
Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , nuclear magnetic resonance imaging ( NMRI ) , or magnetic resonance tomography ( MRT ) is a medical imaging technique used in radiology to investigate the anatomy and function of the body in both health and disease .	Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , or nuclear magnetic resonance imaging ( NMRI ) , are techniques that doctors use to give a visual representation of soft tissue ( flesh ) inside the body .
Ascaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the `` small intestinal roundworms '' .	Ascaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the `` giant intestinal roundworms '' .
A. lumbricoides is the largest intestinal roundworm and is the most common helminth infection of humans worldwide , a disease known as ascariasis .	A. lumbricoides is the largest intestinal roundworm and is the most common worm infection of humans , an infection known as ascariasis .
Infestation can cause morbidity by compromising nutritional status , affecting cognitive processes , inducing tissue reactions such as granuloma to larval stages , and by causing intestinal obstruction , which can be fatal .	Infestation can cause morbidity , and sometimes death , by compromising nutritional status , affecting cognitive processes , inducing tissue reactions , such as granuloma , and provoking intestinal obstruction or rectal prolapse .
The Crisis of the Third Century , also known as Military Anarchy or the Imperial Crisis , ( AD 235-284 ) was a period in which the Roman Empire nearly collapsed under the combined pressures of invasion , civil war , plague , and economic depression .	The Crisis of the Third Century ( 235-284 AD ) was a period in which the Roman Empire almost collapsed .
In human cells , both normal metabolic activities and environmental factors such as UV light and radiation can cause DNA damage , resulting in as many as 1 million individual molecular lesions per cell per day .	In human cells , both normal metabolic activities and environmental factors such as UV light can cause DNA damage , resulting in as many as 1 million individual molecular lesions per cell per day .
Less than eight months after leaving office , Mitterrand died from the prostate cancer he had successfully concealed for most of his presidency .	Mitterrand died of prostate cancer in Paris .
On 5 December 2013 , Nelson Mandela , the first President of South Africa elected in a fully representative democratic election , died at the age of 95 after suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection .	Nelson Mandela died on 5 December 2013 at the age of 95 , at his home in Houghton , Johannesburg , South Africa surrounded by his family after a prolonged lung infection .
The sublingual glands are a pair of major salivary glands located inferior to the tongue , anterior to the submandibular glands .	There are three main pairs of salivary glands .
It is a type of neuropathic pain .	This is called neuropathic pain .
Her first assignment was as a project officer at the National Institute of Arthritis , Metabolism and Digestive Diseases of the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) .	Her first assignment was as a project officer at the National Institute of Arthritis , Metabolism and Digestive Diseases of the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) .
Baldwin III died on 1 January 962 .	Baldwin III died on 1 January 962 of smallpox .
The human population has been growing continuously since the end of the Black Death , around the year 1400 , although the most significant increase has been in the last 50 years , mainly due to medical advancements and increases in agricultural productivity .	The population has been growing since the end of the Black Death , around the year 1400 .
The phylogenetically most recent part of the cerebral cortex , the neocortex ( also called isocortex ) , is differentiated into six horizontal layers ; the more ancient part of the cerebral cortex , the hippocampus , has at most three cellular layers .	The phylogenetically most recent part of the cerebral cortex , the neocortex , has six horizontal layers ; the more ancient part of the cerebral cortex , the hippocampus , has at most three cellular layers .
The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory , attention , perceptual awareness , thought , language , and consciousness .	It plays a key role in memory , attention , perceptual awareness , thought , language , and consciousness .
The layered structure of the mature cerebral cortex is formed during development .	Other parts of the cerebral cortex are : The cellular organization of the old cortex is different from the six-layer structure mentioned above .
The cerebral cortex is the outermost layered structure of neural tissue of the cerebrum ( brain ) , in humans and other mammals .	It is a sheet of neural tissue that is outermost to the cerebrum of the mammalian brain .
In large mammals the surface of the cerebral cortex is folded , giving a much greater surface area in a confined space as in the skull .	The surface of the cerebral cortex is folded in large mammals , such that more than two-thirds of it in the human brain is buried in the grooves .
The migrating daughter cells become the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex .	The cerebral cortex is a most important part of the brain .
Unlike the preceding First Fleet , where great efforts were taken to ensure the health of the convicts , the Second Fleet was contracted to private businesses who kept the convicts in horrific conditions .	Unlike the First Fleet , where great efforts were taken to keep the convicts healthy , the Second Fleet was run by private businesses who kept the convicts in horrific conditions .
Psychiatrists diagnosed Downs with narcissistic , histrionic and antisocial personality disorders .	Downs has been diagnosed with three cluster B personality disorders : antisocial , histrionic and narcissistic .
Roux 's research was based upon the notion of Entwicklungsmechanik or developmental mechanics : he investigated the mechanisms of functional adaptations of bones , cartilage , and tendons to malformation and disease .	Roux 's research was based upon the notion of Entwicklungsmechanik or developmental mechanics .
Another recently described rare , but serious , side effect is propofol infusion syndrome .	A rare side effect of propofol is propofol infusion syndrome .
By causing a specific gene to be inactive in the mouse , and observing any differences from normal behavior or physiology , researchers can infer its probable function .	By causing a specific gene to be inactive in the mouse , and observing any differences from normal behavior or condition , researchers can infer its probable function .
As a teenager , he took responsibility for the care of his younger sister , after his mother developed multiple sclerosis .	As a teenager , he had to take responsibility for the care of his younger sister , after his mother developed multiple sclerosis .
Often , new influenza strains appear when an existing flu virus spreads to humans from another animal species , or when an existing human strain picks up new genes from a virus that usually infects birds or pigs .	This new flu virus got its name because it contains genetic parts that are commonly found in flu viruses that infect pigs .
Flu can occasionally lead to pneumonia , either direct viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia , even for persons who are usually very healthy .	Influenza can also lead to other diseases , such as pneumonia .
Symptoms of toxic shock syndrome vary depending on the underlying cause .	The symptoms of toxic shock syndrome include : Toxic shock syndrome can be caused by many things .
Toxic shock syndrome ( TSS ) is a potentially fatal illness caused by a bacterial toxin .	Toxic shock syndrome or TSS is a non-common , deadly infection caused by toxins from bacteria .
Different bacterial toxins may cause toxic shock syndrome , depending on the situation .	Other tampons that are left in for a long time can also cause toxic shock syndrome .
In September 1965 , Bow died of a heart attack at the age of 60 .	Bow died September 27 , 1965 of a heart attack in Los Angeles , California at the age of 60 .
On June 5 , 2004 , Ronald Reagan , the 40th President of the United States , died after having suffered from Alzheimer 's disease for nearly a decade .	On June 5 , 2004 , Ronald Reagan , the 40th President of the United States , died after having suffered from Alzheimer 's disease for almost 10 years .
Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira suffered a fatal heart attack on June 12 , only days before the summit ; and his colleague , the Foreign Minister , led the delegation which represented Japan in his place .	The participants were the `` core members '' of the group : Japanese Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira had a fatal heart attack only 10 days before the summit .
He died on 10 February 2014 , from complications following kidney failure a week after his 82nd birthday .	Hall died on 10 February 2014 , from complications following kidney failure a week after his eighty second birthday .
He also says that `` the body is our tomb of soul '' ( 493a ) citing the words of Euripides , `` who knows if life be not death and death life '' .	And says that the body is only our tomb of soul by citing Euripides .
Lu 's teachings do not prohibit the consumption of meat for the disciples .	According to Noah Casey , Lu 's teachings do not prohibit the consumption of meat and alcohol ; however , `` The consumption of alcohol is limited to quantities not resulting in intoxication , and the eating of meat is restricted to animals not butchered especially for the person consuming .
Four times as many peptic ulcers arise in the duodenum-the first part of the small intestine , just after the stomach-as in the stomach itself .	A peptic ulcer is an ulcer of the stomach or duodenum .
A peptic ulcer is a distinct breach in the mucosal lining of the stomach ( gastric ulcer ) or the first part of the small intestine ( duodenal ulcer ) , a result of caustic effects of acid and pepsin in the lumen .	Gastric ulcers are peptic ulcers in the stomach .
However , Hajime suffered from asthma and had severe allergic reactions to many of the chemicals used by beauticians .	However , Hajime had severe allergic reactions to many of the chemicals used by beauticians .
Griffith used two strains of pneumococcus ( Streptococcus pneumoniae ) bacteria which infect mice - a type III-S ( smooth ) and type II-R ( rough ) strain .	Griffith used two strains of Pneumococcus .
According to various in-character interviews with Sacha Baron Cohen , Borat attended Astana University , where he studied English , journalism , and plague research .	According to various in-character interviews with Sacha Baron Cohen , Borat learned at Astana University , where he studied English , journalism , and plague research .
Prior to his plague research , Borat worked as an ice maker , gypsy catcher , animal puller ( one who produces semen from animals ) and computer maintenance engineer ( specifically , removing dead birds which had nested in the vents in the computer 's casing ) .	Before this Borat was an ice maker , animal sperm retriever , gypsy catcher , and someone who removes dead birds from a computer .
The pressure at which this sound is first heard is the systolic blood pressure .	Systolic pressure is the first number given in blood pressure readings .
This type of error is called white-coat hypertension ( WCH ) and can result from anxiety related to an examination by a health care professional .	They call this `` white coat hypertension '' .
When used without further specification , `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation .	Unless otherwise stated , `` blood pressure '' refers to systemic arterial blood pressure .
A person 's blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mm Hg ) , for example 120\/80 .	Blood pressure is often measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ) .
His Mendelism ( 1905 ) is sometimes said to have been the first textbook on genetics ; it was probably the first popular science book to introduce genetics to the public .	His Mendelism ( 1905 ) is sometimes said to have been the first textbook on genetics ; it was probably the first popular science book to introduce genetics to the public .
While recovering from a childhood bout of appendicitis , Punnett became acquainted with Jardine 's Naturalist 's Library and developed an interest in natural history .	While recovering from a childhood bout of appendicitis , Punnett became acquainted with Jardine 's Naturalist 's Library and developed an interest in natural history .
Thomson was arrested on 31 January 2013 and was charged with 173 offences of alleged fraud and theft relating to his time at the Health Services Union .	Craig Thomson was arrested in 2013 and charged with 173 offences including fraud and theft .
Worldwide , hepatitis viruses are the most common cause of the condition , but hepatitis can be caused by other infections , toxic substances ( notably alcohol , certain medications , some industrial organic solvents and plants ) , and autoimmune diseases .	Hepatitis may also be caused by other diseases .
He is also the founder and spiritual director of Rigpa-an international network of over 100 Buddhist centres and groups in 23 countries around the world-and the author of the best-selling book The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying , which has been printed in 30 languages and 56 countries .	He is also the author of the best-selling book The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying , which has been printed in 30 languages and 56 countries .
In addition , it has been suggested by author and orator Terence McKenna that religious reverence for the cow is a result of early humankind 's association of psilocybin mushroom with it , this association having developed as a result of the discovery of said mushrooms in the animal 's excrement .	In addition , it has been suggested by author and orator Terence McKenna that religious reverence for the cow is a result of early humankind 's association of psilocybin mushroom with it , this association having developed as a result of the discovery of said mushrooms in the animal 's excrement .
He is also known for his discovery in 1839 of Purkinje fibers , the fibrous tissue that conducts electrical impulses from the atrioventricular node to all parts of the ventricles of the heart .	Purkinje fibers conduct electrical impulses to all parts of the ventricle of the heart .
Köhler defeated Gesine Schwan on the first ballot by 604 votes to 580 ; 20 votes were cast for minor candidates , while one elector was absent because of a heart attack .	Köhler defeated Gesine Schwan on the first ballot by 604 votes to 580 .
Sit-skis are designed for wheelchair users or other skiers with a form of paraplegia .	Sit-skis are for wheelchair users or other skiers who have paraplegia .
Sit-ski development continued into the 1980s , with a more modern version demonstrated in Engelberg , Switzerland in 1987 at a workshop hosted by the Swiss Association of Paraplegics .	A new type of sit-ski was made in Engelberg , Switzerland in 1987 and people were able to see it at a workshop made by the Swiss Association of Paraplegics .
At the 1992 Winter Paralympics in Albertville , Downhill , Giant and Slalom events were on the program .	At the 1992 Winter Paralympics in Albertville , Canada , downhill , giant slalom and slalom events were on the Paralympic program .
For skiers with visual impairments , guides are used to assist the skier down the course .	For skiers with seeing problems , guides are used to help the skier know the direction to ski .
The more metabolically active a cell or environment is , the more capillaries are required to supply nutrients ; and to carry away waste products .	The more metabolically active the cells , the more capillaries it will require to supply nutrients and carry away waste products .
These microvessels , measuring around 5 to 10 micrometre in diameter , connect arterioles and venules , and they help to enable the exchange of water , oxygen , carbon dioxide , and many other nutrients and waste chemical substances between blood and the tissues surrounding them .	They are about 5-10 μms big , which connect arterioles and venules , and enable the moving of water , oxygen , carbon dioxide , and many other nutrient and waste chemical between blood and surrounding tissues .
Catherine gave birth to her only child - a daughter , Mary Seymour , named after Catherine 's stepdaughter Mary - on 30 August 1548 , and died only six days later , on 5 September 1548 , at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire , from what is thought to be puerperal fever or puerperal sepsis , also called childbed fever .	She gave birth to their daughter , Mary , at Sudeley Castle on 30 August 1548 , but she did not recover from the birth and died soon afterwards on 5 September 1548 .
She had apparently committed suicide with an overdose of sleeping pills , after years of suffering from what she had claimed to be a very rare and painful photo allergy induced by an earlier penicillin treatment that had forced her to avoid practically all sunlight for years .	She had apparently committed suicide with an overdose of sleeping pills .
In 2005 , the Kuratorium ZNS was renamed ZNS - Hannelore Kohl Stiftung in her honor .	When her husband was chancellor she set the up the Hannelore Kohl Stiftung ( that is the Hannelore Kohl Charity ) and the Kuratorium ZNS , a foundation to help find a cure for illnesses of the central nervous system .
Since 1977 , Harris has suffered from a chronic autoimmune disorder , diagnosed as a combination of lupus and systemic sclerosis .	Harris suffers from an autoimmune disease .
Binocular vision is vision in which both eyes are used together .	Binocular vision is vision in which both eyes are used together .
Sexual abstinence ( also known as continence ) or sexual restraint is the practice of refraining from some or all aspects of sexual activity for medical , psychological , legal , social , financial , philosophical , moral or religious reasons .	Sexual abstinence is the practice of voluntarily refraining from some or all aspects of sexual activity .
She died on 13 March 1767 of tuberculosis , and was buried in the royal crypt in Saint-Denis .	Her health declined and she died on 13 March 1767 of tuberculosis and was buried at Sens Cathedral and her heart was taken to the Basilica of Saint Denis .
It is the cause of 37 % of sore throats among children and 5-15 % in adults .	Strep throat causes 37 % of sore throats among children .
Common symptoms include fever , sore throat , and enlarged lymph nodes .	Common symptoms include fever , throat pain ( also called a sore throat ) , and swollen glands ( called lymph nodes ) in the neck .
Streptococcal pharyngitis , streptococcal tonsillitis , or streptococcal sore throat ( known colloquially as strep throat ) is a type of pharyngitis caused by a group A streptococcal infection .	Streptococcal pharyngitis or strep throat is an illness that is caused by the bacteria called `` group A streptococcus '' .
Potential complications include rheumatic fever .	These include rheumatic fever , rashes , or infections .
Strep throat is caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus ( GAS or S. pyogenes ) .	Strep throat is caused by a type of bacteria called group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus ( GAS ) .
The typical symptoms of streptococcal pharyngitis are a sore throat , fever of greater than 38 ° C ( 100 ° F ) , tonsillar exudates ( pus on the tonsils ) , and large cervical lymph nodes .	The usual symptoms of strep throat are a sore throat , fever of more than 38 ° C ( 100.4 ° F ) , pus ( a yellow or green fluid made up of dead bacteria , and white blood cells ) on the tonsils , and swollen lymph nodes .
Aspirin may be used in adults but is not recommended in children due to the risk of Reye 's syndrome .	Aspirin may be used in adults .
Analgesics such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) and paracetamol ( acetaminophen ) help significantly in the management of pain associated with strep throat .	Antibiotics can help a person with strep throat .
Strep throat is a contagious infection , spread through close contact with an infected individual .	People get strep throat by direct , close contact with a sick person .
Streptococcal infections may also lead to acute glomerulonephritis , however the incidence of this side effect is not reduced by the use of antibiotics .	Streptococcal infections might also lead to swelling of the kidneys ( acute glomerulonephritis ) .
Asymptomatic individuals should not be routinely tested with a throat culture or RADT because a certain percentage of the population persistently `` carries '' the streptococcal bacteria in their throat without any harmful results .	People who have no symptoms should not be tested with a throat culture or rapid strep test as some people have streptococcal bacteria in their throats normally without any bad results .
Cells performing aerobic respiration synthesize much more ATP , but not as part of glycolysis .	Summary : 2ATP -- ) 4ATP + 2 ( NADH + H + ) + 2 pyruvate ( net production of 2ATP ) Cells performing aerobic respiration ( respiration using oxygen ) synthesize much more ATP , but not as part of glycolysis .
Patience was to die of a fever In Plymouth in 1634 as the first wife of colony governor Thomas Prence .	Patience would die of a fever in Plymouth in 1634 as the first wife of Plymouth Colony Governor Thomas Prence .
These include genes for functional RNA molecules ( see above ) and sequences such as origins of replication , centromeres , and telomeres .	These include genes for functional RNA molecules and DNA sequences such as `` start replication '' signals , centromeres , and telomeres .
The title is taken from a sound effects track from Blake 's 7 on BBC Sound Effects No. 26 - Sci-Fi Sound Effects titled `` The Core , A Huge Evergrowing Pulsating Brain which Rules from the Centre of Ultraworld '' .	The name is taken from a sound effects track from Blake 's 7 on BBC Sound Effects No. 26 - Sci-Fi Sound Effects called `` The Core , A Huge Evergrowing Pulsating Brain which Rules from the Centre of Ultraworld '' .
For its release as a single on record label Big Life , The Orb changed the title to `` A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules From the Centre of the Ultraworld '' .	Before the song was sold by record company Big Life , The Orb changed the name to `` A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules From the Centre of the Ultraworld '' .
`` A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules from the Centre of the Ultraworld '' is a single by the ambient house group The Orb .	`` A Huge Ever Growing Pulsating Brain That Rules From the Centre of the Ultraworld '' is a mix of a song by the ambient house group The Orb .
The woman at the front of Gin Lane , who lets her baby fall to its death , echoes the tale of Judith Dufour , who strangled her baby so she could sell its clothes for gin money .	The woman at the front of Gin Lane who lets her baby fall to its death , echoes the tale of Judith Dufour who strangled her baby so she could sell its clothes for gin money .
The series , which is set in a Classical interior , shows the story of the fashionable marriage of the son of bankrupt Earl Squanderfield to the daughter of a wealthy but miserly city merchant , starting with the signing of a marriage contract at the Earl 's mansion and ending with the murder of the son by his wife 's lover and the suicide of the daughter after her lover is hanged at Tyburn for murdering her husband .	It starts with the signing of a marriage contract at the Earl 's mansion and ending with the murder of the son by his wife 's lover , and the suicide of the daughter after her lover is hanged at Tyburn .
In the 1890s , Ivan Pavlov famously used dogs to describe classical conditioning .	In the 1890s , Ivan Pavlov famously used dogs to describe classical conditioning .
In the 1970s , antibiotic treatments and vaccines for leprosy were developed using armadillos , then given to humans .	In the 1970s , antibiotic treatments and vaccines for leprosy were made using armadillos , then given to humans .
O'Meara and others argued that animal physiology could be affected by pain during vivisection , rendering results unreliable .	O'Meara and others said that animals could be affected by pain during vivisection , making results unreliable .
In the 1880s , Louis Pasteur convincingly demonstrated the germ theory of medicine by inducing anthrax in sheep .	In the 1880s , Louis Pasteur showed the germ theory of medicine by putting anthrax in sheep .
He claimed that this was due to his giving up alcoholic drinks completely and changing his diet to a vegetarian one .	Fischer said that this was due to his giving up alcohol completely and changing his diet .
The inner ear is innervated by the eighth cranial nerve in all vertebrates .	The inner ear is supplied with the eighth cranial nerve in all vertebrates .
In vertebrates , the inner ear is mainly responsible for sound detection and balance .	It is mainly responsible for sound detection and balance .
In mammals , it consists of the bony labyrinth , a hollow cavity in the temporal bone of the skull with a system of passages comprising two main functional parts : The inner ear is found in all vertebrates , with substantial variations in form and function .	In mammals , it consists of two main working parts inside a bony labyrinth : The inner ear is found in all vertebrates , with many variations in form and function .
The inner ear ( internal ear , auris interna ) is the innermost part of the vertebrate ear .	The inner ear is the innermost part of the vertebrate ear .
Winters died at the age of 85 on January 14 , 2006 , of heart failure at the Rehabilitation Centre of Beverly Hills ; she had suffered a heart attack on October 14 , 2005 .	Winters died on January 14 , 2006 in at a hospital in Beverly Hills , California home from Heart failure , she was 85 years old .
Her third ex-husband Anthony Franciosa had a stroke on the day she died and , himself , died five days later .	Five days later her ex-husband Anthony Franciosa , he had suffered a stroke when Winters died .
Jenner contended that he likes the cereal and consumes this breakfast cereal two to three times per week .	Jenner said that he liked the cereal and ate it two to three times per week .
The yellowing of the `` white of the eye '' is thus more properly termed conjunctival icterus .	Jaundice ( also called icterus ) is when the skin and the whites of the eyes become a yellow color .
The main symptom of jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the white part of the eyes ( sclera ) and of the skin .	There are three types of jaundice : Yellow discoloration of the skin and the whites of the eyes happens in all types of jaundice .
In October 1991 , however , she had to have an emergency Caesarean section in her seventh month of pregnancy , ending in the stillbirth of a daughter .	In October 1991 , she had to have an emergency Caesarean section in her seventh month of pregnancy .
Her mother , Sara Zwilling , was a writer and producer who died of heart disease ; her father , Boris Sagal , was a Ukrainian-born director of Jewish background who died in 1981 in an accident on the set of the television movie World War III .	Her mother , Sara Zwilling was a writer and producer .
Shepard had suffered fractures to the back of his head and in front of his right ear .	Shepard was in a coma and suffered fractures to the back of his head and the front of his right ear .
Still tied to the fence , Shepard , who was still alive but in a coma , was discovered 18 hours later by Aaron Kreifels , a cyclist who initially mistook Shepard for a scarecrow .	Shepard was found by a cyclist named Aaron Kreifels , who thought Shepard was a scarecrow at first .
They are cells that possess a large smooth nucleus , a large area of cytoplasm , and many internal vesicles for processing foreign material .	They are cells that possess a large smooth nucleus , a large area of cytoplasm and many internal vesicles for processing foreign material .
These are phagocytosis , antigen presentation , and cytokine production .	These are phagocytosis , antigen presentation and cytokine production .
Many years ago , when she `` practiced baby-farming '' , she had cared for two babies , one `` of low condition '' , the other `` a regular patrician '' .	Many years ago , she had cared for two babies .
The Glasgow Coma Scale or GCS is a neurological scale that aims to give a reliable , objective way of recording the conscious state of a person for initial as well as subsequent assessment .	Glasgow Coma Scale or GCS is a scale that is used to measure the consciousness of a person .
Miles suffered from diabetes and a post mortem found that this contributed to his death by heart failure on 12 November 2001 .	A post mortem found that this contributed to his death by heart failure .
By depriving kittens from using one eye , they showed that columns in the primary visual cortex receiving inputs from the other eye took over the areas that would normally receive input from the deprived eye .	By depriving kittens from using one eye , they showed that columns in the primary visual cortex receiving inputs from the other eye took over the areas that would normally receive input from the deprived eye .
Some of these neurons responded to light patterns and dark patterns differently .	Some of these neurons responded differently to light patterns than to dark patterns .
In one experiment , done in 1959 , they inserted a microelectrode into the primary visual cortex of an anesthetized cat .	Hubel and Wiesel received the Nobel Prize for two major contributions : In one experiment , done in 1959 , they inserted a microelectrode into the primary visual cortex of an anesthetized cat .
Bennett died at age 80 from a heart attack at her home in Scarsdale , New York .	Bennett died from a heart attack in Scarsdale , New York at the age of 80 , and was buried in Pleasant View Cemetery , Lyme , Connecticut .
Carey Bell died of heart failure on May 6 , 2007 , in Chicago , Illinois .	Carey Bell died of heart failure on May 6 , 2007 , in Chicago , Illinois .
Major depressive disorder ( MDD ) ( also known as clinical depression , major depression , unipolar depression , or unipolar disorder ; or as recurrent depression in the case of repeated episodes ) is a mental disorder characterized by a pervasive and persistent low mood that is accompanied by low self-esteem and by a loss of interest or pleasure in normally enjoyable activities .	Depression ( also called major depressive disorder , unipolar depression or clinical depression ) is a mental illness or mood disorder which makes people feel sad and pessimistic .
It also had just two vertebrae joining the pelvis to the spine , a distinctly primitive condition .	It also had just two vertebrae joining the pelvis to the spine , a distinctly primitive arrangement .
Outbreak is a term used in epidemiology to describe an occurrence of disease greater than would otherwise be expected at a particular time and place .	The word `` outbreak '' is a term used in epidemiology .
Dignitas is a Swiss group , they help those with terminal illness and severe physical and mental illnesses to die assisted by qualified doctors and nurses .	Dignitas is a Swiss group that helps people with assisted suicide .
Then we see her deliberately contract cholera and be transferred to hospital .	Then we see her deliberately getting the illness cholera and being taken to hospital .
Bergman suffered from depression .	Bergman suffered from bipolar disorder and generalized anxiety disorder which she hid from her family and friends .
According to S. Boyd Eaton , `` we are the heirs of inherited characteristics accrued over millions of years ; the vast majority of our biochemistry and physiology are tuned to life conditions that existed before the advent of agriculture some 10,000 years ago .	According to S. Boyd Eaton , `` we are the heirs of inherited characteristics accrued over millions of years ; the vast majority of our biochemistry and physiology are tuned to life conditions that existed before the advent of agriculture some 10,000 years ago .
In 1989 , these authors published a second book on Paleolithic nutrition .	In 1989 , these authors published a second book on Paleolithic nutrition .
In 1985 , S. Boyd Eaton and Melvin Konner published a paper on Paleolithic nutrition in the New England Journal of Medicine , which attracted wider mainstream medical attention to the concept .	In 1985 , S. Boyd Eaton and Melvin Konner , both from Emory University , published an important paper on Paleolithic nutrition in the New England Journal of Medicine , which made more people know about the idea .
These surveys , collectively referred to as the Kitava Study , found that this population apparently did not suffer from diabetes , hypertension , ischemic heart disease , obesity , or strokes .	These studies , called the Kitava Study , found that these people apparently did not suffer from stroke , ischemic heart disease , diabetes , obesity or hypertension .
On Christmas Eve 1992 , Peyo died of a heart attack in Brussels at age 64 .	On Christmas Eve 1992 , Peyo died of a heart attack in Brussels at age 64 .
Examples of exocrine glands include the sweat glands , salivary glands , mammary glands , and liver .	Examples of exocrine organs and glands :
He was short and red-headed , and suffered from scarlet fever when young , which left him with a hearing impairment .	When he was young he suffered from scarlet fever which made him rather deaf , especially in his later years .
A measles epidemic and food shortages during 1900 reduced the population of the area by one-third .	Measles and food shortages during 1900 reduced the population of the area by one-third .
Coombs suffered a stroke on September 10 , 2001 , and died on September 18 , 2001 at the age of 73 .	Coombs had a stroke on September 10 , 2001 .
On 22 August 1864 , the conference adopted the first Geneva Convention `` for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field '' .	On 22 August 1864 , the conference adopted the first Geneva Convention `` for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field '' .
If the stressful conditions persist , the polyp eventually dies .	If the stressful conditions persist , the polyp eventually dies .
The band split after the death of lead singer Lux Interior .	The band split after the death of lead singer Lux Interior .
Further variation exists ; thus , specific influenza strain isolates are identified by a standard nomenclature specifying virus type , geographical location where first isolated , sequential number of isolation , year of isolation , and HA and NA subtype .	Further variation exists ; thus , specific influenza strain isolates are identified by a standard nomenclature specifying virus type , geographical location where first isolated , sequential number of isolation , year of isolation , and HA and NA subtype .
This reduced rate of antigenic change , combined with its limited host range ( inhibiting cross species antigenic shift ) , ensures that pandemics of influenza B do not occur .	This reduced rate of antigenic change , combined with its limited host range ( inhibiting cross species antigenic shift ) , ensures that pandemics of influenza B do not occur .
Sixteen H subtypes ( or serotypes ) and nine N subtypes of influenza A virus have been identified .	Sixteen H subtypes ( or serotypes ) and nine N subtypes of influenza A virus have been identified .
The first three genera contain viruses that cause influenza in vertebrates , including birds ( see also avian influenza ) , humans , and other mammals .	The first three genera contain viruses that cause influenza in vertebrates , including birds ( see also avian influenza ) , humans , and other mammals .
The serotypes that have been confirmed in humans , ordered by the number of known human pandemic deaths , are : Influenza B virus is almost exclusively a human pathogen , and is less common than influenza A. The only other animal known to be susceptible to influenza B infection is the seal .	The serotypes that have been confirmed in humans , ordered by the number of known human pandemic deaths , are : Influenza B virus is almost exclusively a human pathogen , and is less common than influenza A. The only other animal known to be susceptible to influenza B infection is the seal .
Examples of the nomenclature are : The type A viruses are the most virulent human pathogens among the three influenza types and cause the most severe disease .	Examples of the nomenclature are : The type A viruses are the most virulent human pathogens among the three influenza types and causes the most severe disease .
Influenza A viruses are further classified , based on the viral surface proteins hemagglutinin ( HA or H ) and neuraminidase ( NA or N ) .	Influenza A viruses are further classified , based on the viral surface proteins hemagglutinin ( HA or H ) and neuraminidase ( NA or N ) .
However , influenza C is less common than the other types and usually seems to cause mild disease in children .	However , influenza C is less common than the other types and usually seems to cause mild disease in children .
This type of influenza mutates at a rate 2-3 times lower than type A and consequently is less genetically diverse , with only one influenza B serotype .	This type of influenza mutates at a rate 2-3 times lower than type A and consequently is less genetically diverse , with only one influenza B serotype .
As a result of this lack of antigenic diversity , a degree of immunity to influenza B is usually acquired at an early age .	As a result of this lack of antigenic diversity , a degree of immunity to influenza B is usually acquired at an early age .
Influenza A and C infect multiple species , while influenza B almost exclusively infects humans .	Influenza A and C infect multiple species , while influenza B almost exclusively infects humans .
The influenza C virus infects humans and pigs , and can cause severe illness and local epidemics .	The influenza C virus infects humans and pigs , and can cause severe illness and local epidemics .
There are three genera of influenza virus : Influenzavirus A , Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C. Each genus includes only one species , or type : Influenza A virus , Influenza B virus , and Influenza C virus , respectively .	They infect vertebrates , as follows : There are three genera of influenza virus : Influenzavirus A , Influenzavirus B and Influenzavirus C. Each genus includes only one species , or type : Influenza A virus , Influenza B virus , and Influenza C virus , respectively .
However , influenza B mutates enough that lasting immunity is not possible .	However , influenza B mutates enough that lasting immunity is not possible .
For she brings with her a jar ( which , due to textual corruption in the sixteenth century , came to be called a box ) containing `` burdensome toil and sickness that brings death to men '' ( 91-2 ) , diseases ( 102 ) and `` a myriad other pains '' ( 100 ) .	The box contains `` burdensome toil and sickness that brings death to men '' ( 91-2 ) , diseases ( 102 ) and `` a myriad other pains '' ( 100 ) .
She was playing her most famous role , Lady Macbeth , and the audience refused to allow the play to continue after the end of the sleepwalking scene .	She was playing her most famous role , Lady Macbeth , and the audience refused to allow the play to continue after the end of the sleepwalking scene .
This syndrome is often referred to as `` legionary behavior '' , and is an example of convergent evolution .	This is called `` legionary behavior '' , and is convergent evolution .
Phagocytes of humans and other animals are called `` professional '' or `` non-professional '' depending on how effective they are at phagocytosis .	Phagocytes of humans and other animals are called professional or non-professional , depending on how good they are at phagocytosis .
After phagocytosis , macrophages and dendritic cells can also participate in antigen presentation , a process in which a phagocyte moves parts of the ingested material back to its surface .	After phagocytosis , macrophages and dendritic cells can also do ` antigen presentation ' : this is when the phagocyte moves parts of the killed bacteria back to its surface .
The professional phagocytes include many types of white blood cells ( such as neutrophils , monocytes , macrophages , and mast cells ) and dendritic cells .	The professional phagocytes are neutrophils , monocytes , macrophages , dendritic cells , and mast cells .
Phagocytes are crucial in fighting infections , as well as in maintaining healthy tissues by removing dead and dying cells that have reached the end of their lifespan .	Phagocytes are very important in fighting infections and in getting rid of dead and dying cells .
In comparison , Mycoplasma genitalium , which has the smallest genome of any free-living organism , has a genome of 521 genes .	In comparison , Mycoplasma genitalium , which has the smallest genome of any free-living organism , has a genome of 521 genes .
Because if a mother can kill her own child - what is left for me to kill you and you kill me - there is nothing between . ''	She did not think women had the right to have abortions and said , `` The greatest destroyer of peace is abortion because if a mother can kill her own child , what is left for me to kill you and you to kill me ? ''
Elisabeth Therese died at the Palace of Venaria aged 29 , having fallen ill with puerperal fever after childbirth .	Élisabeth Thérèse died at the Palace of Venaria aged 29 , having fallen ill with a fever after childbirth .
Just as with other hypnotics , flunitrazepam should be strictly used only on a short-term basis or in those with chronic insomnia on an occasional basis .	Like other hypnotics , flunitrazepam should be used only on a short-term basis or in those with serious insomnia on an occasional basis .
Flunitrazepam is a drug that is frequently involved in drug intoxication , including overdose .	The drug is often involved in drug intoxication , including overdoses .
The risk of overdose is increased if flunitrazepam is taken in combination with CNS depressants such as alcohol and opiates .	The overdose will be worse if flunitrazepam is taken with depressants , like alcohol or opiates .
Elliott was diagnosed with HIV in 1987 and died of AIDS-related tuberculosis at his home in Santa Eulària des Riu on Ibiza , Spain , in 1992 .	He died of AIDS-related tuberculosis at his home on Ibiza , Spain , in 1992 .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as `` a state of complete physical , mental , and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity . ''	Health is `` a state of complete physical , mental , and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease '' according to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) .
These include flash burns , crush injuries and respiratory injuries .	Quaternary injuries , include flash burns , crush injuries from falling debris and inhalation injuries , which may make existing respiratory conditions such as asthma and COPD worse .
Throughout 2008 , Mirza was plagued by a slew of wrist injuries , requiring her to withdraw from several matches including those of the 2008 French Open and 2008 US Open Grand Slams .	Throughout 2008 , Mirza was plagued by a slew of wrist injuries , requiring her to withdraw from several matches and the Roland Garros and US Open Grand Slams .
Instead , it aims to reduce the number of viable pathogens so they are unlikely to cause disease ( assuming the pasteurized product is stored as indicated and is consumed before its expiration date ) .	It wants to bring their number down so they are unlikely to cause disease ( assuming the pasteurized product is kept in the refrigerator and consumed before its expiration date ) .
The most widely studied of the progeroid syndromes are Werner syndrome and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria , as they are seen to most resemble natural aging .	The most widely studied of the progeroid syndromes are Werner syndrome ( WS ) and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria ( HGPS ) , because they resemble natural aging .
Familial Alzheimer 's disease and familial Parkinson 's disease are two accelerated aging diseases associated with aged individuals ; they affect only one tissue and can be classified as unimodal progeroid syndromes .	Familial Alzheimer 's disease and familial Parkinson 's disease , an accelerated aging disease associated with aged individuals , affects only one tissue : it can be classified as an unimodal progeroid syndrome .
Individuals with these disorders tend to have a reduced lifespan .	Individuals with PS-related disorders often have a reduced lifespan .
Progeroid means `` resembling premature aging '' , a definition that can apply to a broad range of diseases .	Progeroid means `` resembling old age '' .
Progeroid syndromes have been widely studied in the fields of aging , regeneration , stem cells and cancer .	Because of its property of accelerated aging ( senescence ) , progeroid syndomes have been widely studied in the fields of aging , regeneration , stem cells and cancer .
Progeroid syndromes ( PS ) are a group of rare genetic disorders that mimic physiological aging , making affected individuals appear to be older than they are .	Progeroid syndromes ( PS ) describes a range of genetic disorders where the affected person appear to grow older faster .
However , progeroid syndrome usually refers to segmental progeria , which tends to affect multiple or all tissues and causes affected individuals to exhibit only some of the features associated with aging .	In most cases , the term progeroid syndrome is used for segmental progeria : Wit this conditions , the affected people only show some ofthe features linked with aging , but not all of them .
By then , he had begun to exhibit the effects of diabetes , and to lose interest in the prospect of playing or managing professional baseball .	By then , he had begun to show the effects of diabetes .
Brutus is said to have been wounded in the hand and in the legs .	Brutus is said to have been wounded in the hand .
The authors of the genus list them as `` midcaudal vertebrae fusions , healed fractures of mid-caudal vertebra transverse processes ; osteophytes affecting pedal phalanges , healed gastralia rib fractures , some forming false joints ... ( and ) scapula fracture . ''	They were `` midcaudal vertebrae fusions , healed fractures of mid-caudal vertebra transverse processes ; osteophytes affecting pedal phalanges , healed gastralia rib fractures , some forming false joints ... ( and ) scapula fracture '' .
Ives died of a stroke in 1954 in New York City .	Ives died in 1954 in New York City at 12:32 PM
After continuing health problems , including diabetes , in 1930 he retired from his insurance business , which gave him more time to devote to his musical work , but he was unable to write any new music .	His health problems continued , and he retired from the insurance business in 1930 .
Other less common sites of origin include the prostate , kidney , thyroid , skin , colon and blood or bone marrow .	Other less common sites of origin include the prostate , kidney , thyroid , skin , colon and blood or bone marrow .
Wheldon was very emotional after the win , due to his not having a ride for the rest of the season and the news that his mother had recently been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's Disease .	He did not have a ride for the rest of the season , and he was worried about his mother who had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease .
In the same interview he also said `` I feel internally happier than at any time of my life . ''	In the same interview he also said `` I feel internally happier than at any time of my life . ''
The pair raised # 64,000 for charity with half of that sum going to the British Olympic Association and a quarter of the sum going to Asthma UK .	The pair raised # 64,000 for charity with half of that sum going to the British Olympic Association and a quarter of the sum going to Asthma UK .
He died of pneumonia and was buried at the Saint-Pierre Cemetery in his hometown of Aix-en-Provence .	He was born in Aix-en-Provence , in the south of France and died of pneumonia there .
The decreased acid level itself can cause symptoms similar to gastroesophageal reflux disease , and impairs protein digestion by inhibiting the activation of the enzyme pepsin , whose activation is dependent upon a low gastric pH. .	The lowering acid level itself can make symptoms similar to gastroesophageal reflux disease , and hinders protein digestion by holding back the enzyme pepsin .
Furthermore , low acid ( high pH ) levels in the stomach are linked with bacterial overgrowth ( as the stomach does not kill microbes normally present in food ) , which can manifest as diarrhea or decreased absorption of nutrients or vitamins .	Low acid levels in the stomach are also linked with bacteria growing too much , which can stop the body taking in nutrients or vitamins .
As a medical condition , it is also called gymnophobia .	As a medical condition it is also called gymnophobia .
Hox genes ( from an abbreviation of homeobox ) are a group of related genes that control the body plan of the embryo along the anterior-posterior ( head-tail ) axis .	Hox genes are a group of related genes that determine the basic structure and orientation of an organism .
Yatzenko is then struck with the hammer to ensure he is dead .	He is then struck with the hammer again in order to ensure that he is dead .
Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all varieties of gastrointestinal ailments : when stomach pains progressed to internal hemorrhaging , an Egyptian treatment consisted of saffron crocus seeds mixed and crushed together with aager-tree remnants , ox fat , coriander , and myrrh .	Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all varieties of gastrointestinal ailments .
However , she noted that the experience of having had her first child in May 2011 made aspects of filming the fighting scenes more strenuous than expected , commenting , `` Recovering from labor is like recovering from a full-body injury , and I did n't realize to what extent that was true until I started training for elf fighting .	However , she said that the experience of having had her first baby in May 2011 made some parts of filming the fighting scenes harder than she expected , saying , `` Recovering from labor is like recovering from a full-body injury , and I did n't realize to what extent that was true until I started training for elf fighting .
The use of these principles led to an increasing understanding of protein structure and other biological processes .	The use of these principles led to an increasing understanding of protein structure and other biological processes .
One SS officer stated they each took cyanide and were shot by an SS trooper , on Goebbels ' prior orders .	One SS officer said they each took cyanide and ordered an SS trooper to shoot them both .
In a report to Congress , the American military governor opined `` that execution by the garotte is far less inhumane and revolting than execution by hanging . ''	In a report to Congress , the American military governor said `` that execution by the garrotte is far less inhumane and revolting than execution by hanging '' .
A wooden stick would then be placed in the loop and twisted by an executioner , causing the rope to tighten until it strangled the prisoner to death .	A wooden stick was placed in the loop , and by rotating the stick , the rope was tightened until the condemned person was strangled to death .
The Plague of 1771 was the last massive outbreak of plague in central Russia , claiming up to 100,000 lives in Moscow alone .	The Plague of 1771 was the last big plague in central Russia , killing 100,000 people in Moscow alone .
On October 7 against the Tennessee Titans , Gandy suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee , causing him to miss the remainder of the season .	On October 7 , Gandy hurt his left knee while playing against the Tennessee Titans ; he tore what is called an anterior cruciate ligament , which kept him from playing any more games for the rest of the season .
In living tissue , gray matter actually has a very light gray color with yellowish or pinkish hues , which come from capillary blood vessels and neuronal cell bodies .	In living tissue , gray matter actually has a very light gray color with yellowish or pinkish hues , which come from capillary blood vessels and neuronal cell bodies .
Grey matter ( or gray matter ) ( lat .	Grey matter ( or gray matter ) is a main component of the central nervous system .
This process continues on the inner surface of the walls until the central cavity of the cell , the lumen , is completely filled .	This process continues on the inner surface of the walls until the central cavity of the cell , the lumen , is completely filled .
Lead guitarist Paul Kossoff formed Back Street Crawler and died from a drug-induced heart failure at the age of 25 in 1976 .	In 1976 he died from a drug-induced heart failure .
The Secretary of the Interior is eighth in the United States presidential line of succession .	The Secretary of the Interior is eighth in the United States presidential line of succession .
On 17 November 1974 , just after making a speech to the Royal College of Physicians in Dublin , Childers suffered a heart attack .	Childers , though 67 , was an extremely hard-working and He died suddenly of a heart attack in November 1974 , while making a public speech to the Royal College of Physicians in Dublin .
He died on September 22 , 1999 , aged 71 , of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm .	Scott died on September 22 , 1999 from an abdominal aortic aneurysm in Westlake Village , California , he was 71 years old .
In the late 1980s Gibson suffered two cerebral hemorrhages and in 1992 , a stroke .	In later years , she suffered two cerebral aneurysms and , in 1992 , a stroke .
It also revealed that Selena 's heart , fueled by adrenaline , increased the rate of blood loss .	The autopsy also revealed that Selena 's heart , fueled by adrenaline , pumped her blood out .
Doctors also found that if the bullet had been only one millimeter higher or lower , the wound would not have been as severe .	The doctor said that if the bullet had hit Selena a millimeter higher or lower , the wound would not have been as severe .
It revealed that the bullet had entered Selena 's lower back , passed through her chest cavity ( severing the right common carotid artery ) and exited her right upper chest .	The autopsy revealed that the bullet entered Selena 's lower back .
The plague doctors of Nijmegen also wore beaked masks .	The plague doctors of Nijmegen also wore beaked masks .
The canes were also used to keep people away , to remove clothing from plague victims without having to touch them , and to take a patient 's pulse .	The canes were also used to keep people away , to take clothes off plague victims without having to touch them and to take a patient 's pulse .
The plague doctor 's costume was the clothing worn by a plague doctor to protect him from airborne diseases .	The plague doctor 's costume was the clothes worn by a plague doctor to protect him from diseases spread through the air .
The beak doctor costume worn by plague doctors had a wide brimmed leather hood to indicate their profession .	The costume had a wide brimmed leather hood to show that they were doctors .
The Genevese physician Jean-Jacques Manget , in his 1721 work Treatise on the Plague written just after the Great Plague of Marseille , describes the costume worn by plague doctors at Nijmegen in 1636-1637 .	Jean-Jacques Manget , in his 1721 book Treatise on the Plague , written just after the Great Plague of Marseille , talks about the costumes that plague doctors wore at Nijmegen in 1636-1637 .
The costume is also associated with a commedia dell ` arte character called Il Medico della Peste ( the Plague Doctor ) , who wears a distinctive plague doctor 's mask .	The costume was worn by a commedia dell ` arte character called Il Medico della Peste ( the Plague Doctor ) .
This costume was also worn by plague doctors during the Plague of 1656 , which killed 145,000 people in Rome and 300,000 in Naples .	This costume was also worn by plague doctors during the Plague of 1656 .
This popular seventeenth century poem describes the plague doctor 's costume .	It describes the plague doctor 's costume .
Doctors believed the herbs would counter the `` evil '' smells of the plague and prevent them from becoming infected .	Doctors believed the herbs would take away the `` evil '' smells of the plague and stop them from getting it .
Some modern writers have described fourteenth-century plague doctors as wearing bird-like masks .	Some modern writers have said that fourteenth-century plague doctors wore masks which looked like birds .
Brucellosis , also called Bang 's disease , Crimean fever , Gibraltar fever , Malta fever , Maltese fever , Mediterranean fever , rock fever , or undulant fever , is a highly contagious zoonosis caused by ingestion of unpasteurized milk or undercooked meat from infected animals or close contact with their secretions .	It is also called Bang 's disease , Crimean fever , Gibraltar fever , Malta fever , Maltese fever , Mediterranean fever , rock fever , and undulant fever .
On February 6 , 1957 , the Soviet government released a document dated July 17 , 1947 , which stated `` I report that the prisoner Wallenberg who is well-known to you , died suddenly in his cell this night , probably as a result of a heart attack or heart failure .	In 1957 , the Soviet government reported that Wallenberg had died of a heart attack in prison in 1947 .
He died in Springfield , Missouri , at Cox South Hospital , from an abdominal aortic aneurysm , aged 59 , two months before the release of what would be his final studio album , Final Touches .	He died on June 5 , 1993 at Cox House Hospital in Springfield , Missouri due to abdominal aortic aneurysm .
Hench , Kendall and Swiss chemist Tadeus Reichstein were awarded the 1950 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine `` for their discoveries relating to the hormones of the adrenal cortex , their structure and biological effects . ''	Hench , Kendall and Swiss chemist Tadeus Reichstein won the 1950 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for `` for their discoveries relating to the hormones of the adrenal cortex , their structure and biological effects . ''
During his career , Hench was one of the founding members of the American Rheumatism Association , and served as its president in 1940 and 1941 .	During his career , Hench was one of the founding members of the American Rheumatism Association .
Hench started his career at Mayo Clinic in 1923 , working in the Department of Rheumatic Diseases .	Hench started his career at Mayo Clinic in 1923 .
During this same time , biochemist Edward Calvin Kendall has isolated several steroids from the adrenal gland cortex .	During this time , biochemist Edward Calvin Kendall has found several steroids created by the adrenal gland cortex .
Hench , along with his Mayo Clinic co-worker Edward Calvin Kendall and Swiss chemist Tadeus Reichstein was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1950 for the discovery of the hormone cortisone , and its application for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis .	He won the award along with his Mayo Clinic co-worker Edward Calvin Kendall and Swiss chemist Tadeus Reichstein .
While at Mayo Clinic , Hench focused his work on arthritic diseases , where his observations led him to hypothesize that steroids alleviated pain associated with the disease .	While at Mayo Clinic , Hench worked mainly on arthritic diseases .
After several years of work , the duo decided to try one of these steroids ( dubbed Compound E at the time , later to become known as cortisone ) on patients afflicted by rheumatoid arthritis .	It later become known as cortisone .
Research topics have included low crop and animal productivity , and environmental degradation , water management , fragile lands , property rights , collective action , sustainable intensification of agricultural production , the impact of climate change on poor farmers , the problems and opportunities of biotechnology , food security , micronutrient malnutrition , microfinance programs , urban food security , resource allocation within households , and school feeding in low-income countries .	Research topics have included low crop and animal productivity , and environmental degradation , water management , fragile lands , property rights , collective action , sustainable intensification of agricultural production , the impact of climate change on poor farmers , the problems and opportunities of biotechnology , food security , micronutrient malnutrition , microfinance programs , urban food security , gender and development , and resource allocation within households .
The mission of IFPRI is to seek sustainable solutions for ending hunger and poverty through research .	According to its website , IFPRI `` seeks sustainable solutions for ending hunger and poverty . ''
While the plague raged in Venice , Titian died of a fever on 27 August 1576 .	When Titian died of the Plague in the year 1576 , he was an old man .
Following a long history of heart disease , he died a few days after his 75th birthday on 27 January 2006 .	Following a long history of heart disease , he died a few days after his 75th birthday .
Busoni died in Berlin from a kidney disease .	Busoni died in Berlin from a kidney disease .
Taylor was cofounder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research ( amfAR ) with Dr. Michael Gottlieb and Dr. Mathilde Krim in 1985 .	Taylor was cofounder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research ( amfAR ) with Dr. Michael Gottlieb and Dr. Mathilde Krim in 1985 .
Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79 , having suffered many years of ill health .	Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79 after suffering many years of ill health .
She was one of the first celebrities and public personalities to do so at a time when few acknowledged the disease , organizing and hosting the first AIDS fundraiser in 1984 , to benefit AIDS Project Los Angeles .	She was one of the first celebrities and public personalities to do so at a time when few people knew about the disease and organized and hosted the first AIDS fundraiser in 1984 to benefit AIDS Project Los Angeles .
The major applications of synchrotron light are in condensed matter physics , materials science , biology and medicine .	The major applications of synchrotron light are in condensed matter physics , materials science , biology and medicine .
A large fraction of experiments using synchrotron light involve probing the structure of matter from the sub-nanometer level of electronic structure to the micrometer and millimeter level important in medical imaging .	Many experiments using synchrotron light probe the structure of matter from the sub-nanometer level of electronic structure to the micrometer and millimeter level .
Tonic immobility has also been hypothesized to occur in humans who are subject to intense trauma such as sexual assault .	Tonic immobility has also been said to occur in humans that are subject to intense trauma such as rape or sexual assault .
FAO is also a source of knowledge and information , and helps developing countries and countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture , forestry and fisheries practices , ensuring good nutrition and food security for all .	FAO is also a source of knowledge and information , and helps developing countries and countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture , forestry and fisheries practices , ensuring good nutrition and food security for all .
Benchley died of pulmonary fibrosis in 2006 .	Benchley died of pulmonary fibrosis on February 12 , 2006 in Princeton , New Jersey .
After suffering from bronchitis and asthma for two years , he died on July 18 , 1899 .	He died there on July 18 , 1899 after an asthma attack .
Paul J Flory died of a heart attack in Big Sur , California in 1985 .	Paul J Flory died of a heart attack in Big Sur , California in 1985 .
On July 30 , 1980 , Richard suffered a stroke and collapsed while playing a game of catch before an Astros game , and was rushed to the hospital for emergency surgery to remove a life-threatening blood clot in his neck .	On July 30 , 1980 , Richard suffered a stroke and collapsed while playing catch before a game .
However in April 1940 he suffered a massive stroke .	( George VI was legally King of Ireland until 1 April 1949 ) However in April 1940 he suffered a massive stroke .
Denmark is credited as co-developer of the pertussis ( whooping cough ) vaccine in the 1920s and 1930s .	She worked on the vaccine for pertussis ( also known as whooping cough ) in the 1920s and 1930s .
On January 11 , 2006 , Piper announced that he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer .	On January 11 , 2006 , Piper was told that he had prostate cancer .
The term prostatitis refers , in its strictest sense , to histological ( microscopic ) inflammation of the tissue of the prostate gland .	The term prostatitis refers in its strictest sense to histological ( microscopic ) inflammation of the tissue of the prostate gland , although historically the term has loosely been used as a rubric to describe a set of quite different conditions .
Prostatitis ( less commonly prostatosis ) is inflammation of the prostate gland .	Prostatitis is any form of inflammation of the prostate gland .
In the United States , prostatitis is diagnosed in 8 percent of all urologist visits and 1 percent of all primary care physician visits .	A prostatitis diagnosis is assigned at 8 % of all urologist and 1 % of all primary care physician visits in the USA .
She died October 18 , 1982 , from congestive heart failure at the age of 97 ; a private funeral service was held October 21 , afterwards she was buried beside her husband in the courtyard of the Harry S. Truman Library .	She lies buried beside her husband in the courtyard of Harry S Truman Library .
Green Day vocalist\/guitarist Billie Joe Armstrong said `` Basket Case '' is about his struggle with anxiety ; before he was diagnosed with a panic disorder years afterward , he thought he was going crazy .	The song was written by frontman Billie Joe Armstrong about his struggle with anxiety ; before he was diagnosed with a panic disorder , and he thought he was going crazy .
It occurs when melanocytes , the cells responsible for skin pigmentation , die or are unable to function .	It occurs when the melanocytes , cells that give skin their color , die or do not work .
A person having an acute MI usually has sudden chest pain that is felt behind the breast bone and sometimes travels to the left arm or the left side of the neck .	Pain can often also be felt in the left arm , and sometimes in the lower jaw , the neck , the right arm , the back , and in parts of the abdomen .
The Nobel Prize citation , issued by Sweden 's Karolinska Institute , said : `` This year 's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information . ''	The Nobel Prize citation , issued by Sweden 's Karolinska Institute , said : `` This year 's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information '' .
The study of plant defenses against herbivory is important , not only from an evolutionary view point , but also in the direct impact that these defenses have on agriculture , including human and livestock food sources ; as beneficial ` biological control agents ' in biological pest control programs ; as well as in the search for plants of medical importance .	The study of plant defences against herbivory is important , not only from an evolutionary view point , but also because these defences can be used in agriculture , including human and livestock food sources .
The structure is known as the middle ear , and is made up of the incus , stapes , malleus , and tympanic membrane .	The structure is known as the middle ear , and is made up of the incus , stapes , malleus , and tympanic membrane .
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .	The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
Later in development , the bone structure breaks loose from the jaw and migrates to the inner ear area .	Later in development , the bone structure breaks loose from the jaw and migrates to the inner ear area .
The ossicles are , in order from the eardrum to the inner ear ( from superficial to deep ) : the malleus , incus , and stapes .	The ossicles are , in order from the eardrum to the inner ear ( from superficial to deep ) , the malleus , incus , and stapes .
They serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ) .	They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are three bones in either middle ear that are among the smallest bones in the human body .	The ossicles are the three smallest bones in the human body .
A spontaneous abortion can also be caused by accidental trauma ; intentional trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion or feticide .	Certain diseases or an accidental trauma can also cause a spontaneous abortion .
Such symbols often represent the fertility and cultural implications that are associated with the male sexual organ , as well as the male orgasm .	Such symbols represent the fertility associated with the male sexual organ , and the male orgasm .
A phallus is a penis , especially when erect , a penis-shaped object , or a mimetic image of an erect penis .	The word phallus refers to an erect penis , to a penis-shaped object such as a dildo , or to a mimetic image of an erect penis .
In 1765 , Dr John Fewster published a paper in the London Medical Society entitled `` Cow pox and its ability to prevent smallpox '' , but he did not pursue the subject further .	In 1765 , Dr John Fewster published a paper in the London Medical Society entitled `` Cow pox and its ability to prevent smallpox '' , but he did not pursue the subject further .
Moreover , he demonstrated that the protective cowpox pus could be effectively inoculated from person to person , not just directly from cattle .	Moreover , he demonstrated that the protective cowpox pus could be effectively inoculated from person to person , not just directly from cattle '' .
Jenner inoculated Phipps in both arms that day , subsequently producing in Phipps a fever and some uneasiness , but no full-blown infection .	Jenner inoculated Phipps in both arms that day , subsequently producing in Phipps a fever and some uneasiness , but no full-blown infection .
In the years following 1770 , at least five investigators in England and Germany ( Sevel , Jensen , Jesty 1774 , Rendell , Plett 1791 ) successfully tested a cowpox vaccine in humans against smallpox .	After 1770 , at least five investigators in England and Germany ( Sevel , Jensen , Jesty 1774 , Rendell , Plett 1791 ) successfully tested a cowpox vaccine in humans against smallpox .
Donald Hopkins has written , `` Jenner 's unique contribution was not that he inoculated a few persons with cowpox , but that he then proved ( by subsequent challenges ) that they were immune to smallpox .	`` Jenner 's unique contribution was not that he inoculated a few persons with cowpox , but that he then proved ( by subsequent challenges ) that they were immune to smallpox .
Noting the common observation that milkmaids were generally immune to smallpox , Jenner postulated that the pus in the blisters that milkmaids received from cowpox ( a disease similar to smallpox , but much less virulent ) protected them from smallpox .	Jenner thought that the pus in the blisters that milkmaids received from cowpox ( a disease similar to smallpox , but much less virulent ) protected them from smallpox .
For example , Dorset farmer Benjamin Jesty successfully vaccinated and presumably induced immunity with cowpox in his wife and two children during a smallpox epidemic in 1774 , but it was not until Jenner 's work some 20 years later that the procedure became widely understood .	For example , Dorset farmer Benjamin Jesty successfully vaccinated and presumably induced immunity with cowpox in his wife and two children during a smallpox epidemic in 1774 .
Edward Jenner , FRS ( 17 May 1749 - 26 January 1823 ) was an English physician and scientist from Berkeley , Gloucestershire , who was the pioneer of smallpox vaccine , the world 's first vaccine .	Edward Jenner ( 17 May 1749 - 26 January 1823 ) was an English physician known for creating the vaccine for smallpox .
He scraped pus from cowpox blisters on the hands of Sarah Nelmes , a milkmaid who had caught cowpox from a cow called Blossom , whose hide now hangs on the wall of the St George 's medical school library ( now in Tooting ) .	He scraped pus from cowpox blisters on the hands of a milkmaid .
He died on May 8 , 1985 , of lung fibrosis , at Sacred Heart General Hospital in the neighboring city of Eugene .	Sturgeon died on May 8 , 1985 , of lung fibrosis , in Eugene , Oregon .
Before regular communication had been established between the two hemispheres , the varieties of domesticated animals and infectious diseases that jumped to humans , such as smallpox , were strikingly more numerous in the Old World than in the New .	Before there was regular communication between the two hemispheres , the different types of domesticated animals and diseases were much larger in the Old World than in the New .
Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to infection or irritation .	Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to infection or irritation .
The flushing action of tears and saliva helps prevent infection of the eyes and mouth .	The flushing action of tears and saliva helps prevent infection of the eyes and mouth .
The bone marrow of a normal healthy adult produces more than 100 billion neutrophils per day , and more than 10 times that many per day during acute inflammation .	The bone marrow of a normal healthy adult produces more than 100 billion neutrophils per day , and more than 10 times that many per day during acute inflammation .
Innate immune systems provide immediate defense against infection , and are found in all classes of plant and animal life .	Innate immune systems provide immediate defense against infection , and are found in all plant and animal life .
Also , mucus traps infectious agents .	Also , mucus traps infectious agents .
Histamine dilates blood vessels , causing the characteristic signs of inflammation , and recruits neutrophils and macrophages .	Histamine dilates blood vessels , causing the signs of inflammation , and recruits neutrophils and macrophages .
The innate leukocytes include : Natural killer cells , mast cells , eosinophils , basophils ; and the phagocytic cells including macrophages , neutrophils , and dendritic cells , and function within the immune system by identifying and eliminating pathogens that might cause infection .	The innate leukocytes include : Natural killer cells , mast cells , eosinophils , basophils ; and the phagocytic cells including macrophages , neutrophils and dendritic cells .
Neutrophils , along with two other cell types ; eosinophils and basophils ( see below ) , are known as granulocytes due to the presence of granules in their cytoplasm , or as polymorphonuclear cells ( PMNs ) due to their distinctive lobed nuclei .	Neutrophils and two other cell types ( eosinophils and basophils ) , are known as granulocytes ( because they have granules in their cytoplasm ) or polymorphonuclear cells ( PMNs ) due to their distinctive lobed nuclei .
In the gastrointestinal and respiratory tract , movement due to peristalsis or cilia , respectively , helps remove infectious agents .	In the gastrointestinal and respiratory tract , movement due to peristalsis or cilia helps remove infectious agents .
The phagocytic cells of the immune system include macrophages , neutrophils , and dendritic cells .	The phagocytic cells of the immune system include macrophages ) , neutrophils , and dendritic cells .
Pathogens also stimulate the macrophage to produce chemokines , which summons other cells to the site of infection .	Pathogens also stimulate the macrophage to produce chemokines , which summon other cells to the site of infection .
Neutrophils are the most abundant type of phagocyte , normally representing 50 to 60 % of the total circulating leukocytes , and are usually the first cells to arrive at the site of an infection .	Neutrophils are the most abundant type of phagocyte , with 50 to 60 % of the total circulating leukocytes .
The innate immune system , also known as non-specific immune system and first line of defense , is a subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms in a non-specific manner .	The innate immune system is the cells and mechanisms which defend the host from infections in a non-specific way .
Inflammation is stimulated by chemical factors released by injured cells and serves to establish a physical barrier against the spread of infection , and to promote healing of any damaged tissue following the clearance of pathogens .	It serves to establish a physical barrier against the spread of infection , and to promote healing of any damaged tissue after the clearance of pathogens .
By helping to remove dead cells preceding growth and development of new healthy cells , phagocytosis is an important part of the healing process following tissue injury .	By removing dead cells , phagocytosis is an important part of the healing process .
The major functions of the vertebrate innate immune system include : The epithelial surfaces form a physical barrier that is impermeable to most infectious agents , acting as the first line of defense against invading organisms .	The vertebrate innate immune system : The epithelial surfaces form a physical barrier that keeps out most infectious agents .
The main products of the neutrophil respiratory burst are strong oxidizing agents including hydrogen peroxide , free oxygen radicals and hypochlorite .	These include hydrogen peroxide , free oxygen radicals and hypochlorite .
Chemical factors produced during inflammation ( histamine , bradykinin , serotonin , leukotrienes , and prostaglandins ) sensitize pain receptors , cause vasodilation of the blood vessels at the scene , and attract phagocytes , especially neutrophils .	Chemical factors produced during inflammation attract phagocytes , especially neutrophils .
When host cells die , either internally induced by processes involving programmed cell death ( also called apoptosis ) or caused by cell injury due to a bacterial or viral infection , phagocytic cells are responsible for their removal from the affected site .	When host cells die , phagocytic cells remove them from the affected site .
Although his time there was marked by variable health from asthma attacks , he nevertheless became an intellectual hero of the Whigs .	Although his time there was marked by variable health from asthma attacks , he nevertheless became an intellectual hero of the Whigs .
Events that happened during Locke 's lifetime include the English Restoration , the Great Plague of London and the Great Fire of London .	Events that happened during Locke 's lifetime include the English Restoration , the Great Plague of London and the Great Fire of London .
In 1666 , he met Lord Anthony Ashley Cooper , 1st Earl of Shaftesbury , who had come to Oxford seeking treatment for a liver infection .	In 1666 , he met Lord Anthony Ashley Cooper , who had come to Oxford seeking treatment for his liver disease .
Locke 's medical knowledge was put to the test when Shaftesbury 's liver infection became life-threatening .	Locke 's medical knowledge was put to the test when Shaftesbury 's liver disease became worse until Shaftesbury was about to die .
Locke coordinated the advice of several physicians and was probably instrumental in persuading Shaftesbury to undergo an operation ( then life-threatening itself ) to remove the cyst .	Locke used the advice of several physicians and persuaded Shaftesbury to go to an operation .
The newer aspartame-free drinks can also be safely consumed by phenylketonurics , because they do not contain phenylalanine .	The newer aspartame-free drinks can also be safely consumed by phenylketonurics , because they do not contain phenylalanine .
Recently , two other sweeteners have been used with increasing frequency : sucralose ( marketed as Splenda ) and acesulfame potassium ( `` Sunett '' or `` Ace K '' ) .	Recently two other sweeteners , sucralose ( marketed as Splenda ) and acesulfame potassium ( `` Sunett '' or `` Ace K '' ( the K is the chemical symbol for potassium ) which is usually used in conjunction with aspartame , sucralose , or saccharin rather than alone ) have come into growing use , particularly by smaller beverage producers ( e.g. Big Red ) .
Diet sodas ( alternatively marketed as sugar-free or light ) are typically sugar-free , artificially sweetened and non-alcoholic carbonated beverages .	Diet sodas ( or diet pop , diet , sugar-free , or light soft drinks , refreshments , or carbonated beverages ) are usually sugar-free , artificially sweetened , non-alcoholic carbonated beverages targeted towards health-conscious people , diabetics , athletes , and other people who want to lose weight , improve physical fitness , or reduce how much sugar they eat .
The 1997 classification divided dengue into undifferentiated fever , dengue fever , and dengue hemorrhagic fever .	Before this , in 1997 , the WHO had divided the disease into undifferentiated fever , dengue fever , and dengue hemorrhagic fever .
Dengue can be life-threatening in people with chronic diseases such as diabetes and asthma .	Dengue can be life-threatening in people with chronic ( long-term ) diseases , like diabetes and asthma .
Terms for severe disease include `` infectious thrombocytopenic purpura '' and `` Philippine '' , `` Thai '' , or `` Singapore hemorrhagic fever '' .	Other names were also used for severe dengue : for example , `` infectious thrombocytopenic purpura '' , `` Philippine , '' `` Thai , '' and `` Singapore hemorrhagic fever . ''
Dengue has become a global problem since the Second World War and is endemic in more than 110 countries .	The disease has become a worldwide problem since the Second World War .
Typically , people infected with dengue virus are asymptomatic ( 80 % ) or only have mild symptoms such as an uncomplicated fever .	About 80 % of people ( or 8 out of every 10 ) who are infected with the dengue virus have no symptoms , or have only mild symptoms ( like a basic fever ) .
The World Health Organization 's 2009 classification divides dengue fever into two groups : uncomplicated and severe .	In 2009 , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) classified , or divided , dengue fever into two types : uncomplicated and severe .
A decreased level of consciousness occurs in 0.5-6 % of severe cases , which is attributable either to inflammation of the brain by the virus or indirectly as a result of impairment of vital organs , for example , the liver .	A decreased level of consciousness occurs in 0.5-6 % of severe cases .
Dengue virus is primarily transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes , particularly A. aegypti .	Dengue virus is transmitted ( or spread ) mostly by Aedes mosquitoes , especially the Aedes aegypti type of mosquito .
Therefore , travelers returning from endemic areas are unlikely to have dengue if fever or other symptoms start more than 14 days after arriving home .	So if a person returns from an area where dengue is common , and gets a fever or other symptoms more than 14 days after he returned , he probably does not have dengue .
Other neurological disorders have been reported in the context of dengue , such as transverse myelitis and Guillain-Barré syndrome .	For example , dengue can cause transverse myelitis and Guillain-Barré syndrome .
Other historical terms include `` breakheart fever '' and `` la dengue '' .	For example , dengue was also called `` breakheart fever '' and `` la dengue . ''
Symptoms include fever , headache , muscle and joint pains , and a characteristic skin rash that is similar to measles .	Some of the symptoms of dengue fever are fever ; headache ; a skin rash that looks like measles ; and pain in the muscles and joints .
The characteristic symptoms of dengue are sudden-onset fever , headache ( typically located behind the eyes ) , muscle and joint pains , and a rash .	The classic symptoms of dengue fever are a fever that begins suddenly ; a headache ( usually behind the eyes ) ; a rash ; and muscle and joint pains .
Dengue hemorrhagic fever was subdivided further into grades I-IV .	In the WHO 's old system of classification , dengue hemorrhagic fever was divided into four stages , called grades I-IV : Dengue fever can be diagnosed by microbiological laboratory testing .
It is not entirely clear why secondary infection with a different strain of dengue virus places people at risk of dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome .	Less than 5 % of people with dengue get circulatory shock , dengue shock syndrome , and dengue hemorrhagic fever .
The term `` breakbone fever '' was applied by physician and United States Founding Father Benjamin Rush , in a 1789 report of the 1780 epidemic in Philadelphia .	The name `` breakbone fever '' was first used by Benjamin Rush , a doctor and United States `` Founding Father '' .
In a small proportion of cases the disease develops into the life-threatening dengue hemorrhagic fever , resulting in bleeding , low levels of blood platelets and blood plasma leakage , or into dengue shock syndrome , where dangerously low blood pressure occurs .	The second is dengue shock syndrome , which causes dangerously low blood pressure .
The term dengue fever came into general use only after 1828 .	The term `` dengue fever '' was not commonly used until after 1828 .
Slaves in the West Indies having contracted dengue were said to have the posture and gait of a dandy , and the disease was known as `` dandy fever '' .	In the West Indies , slaves that had dengue were said to stand and walk like `` a dandy '' .
Infection of the heart and acute liver failure are among the rarer complications .	Although this almost never happens , dengue can also cause infection of the heart and acute liver failure .
All tests may be negative in the early stages of the disease .	When dengue is in the early stages of the disease , all of these tests may be negative ( meaning they do not show that the person has the disease ) .
Dengue fever ( UK \/ ˈdɛŋɡeɪ \/ or US \/ ˈdɛŋɡiː \/ ) , also known as breakbone fever , is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus .	Dengue fever is an infection caused by the dengue virus .
Dengue can occasionally affect several other body systems , either in isolation or along with the classic dengue symptoms .	A person can have symptoms alone , or along with the classic dengue symptoms .
Some petechiae ( small red spots that do not disappear when the skin is pressed , which are caused by broken capillaries ) can appear at this point , as may some mild bleeding from the mucous membranes of the mouth and nose .	The person may also have mild bleeding from the mucous membranes of the mouth and nose .
The origins of the Spanish word dengue are not certain , but it is possibly derived from dinga in the Swahili phrase Ka-dinga pepo , which describes the disease as being caused by an evil spirit .	Some people think that it comes from the Swahili phrase Ka-dinga pepo .
There may also be organ dysfunction and severe bleeding , typically from the gastrointestinal tract .	The person can also have severe bleeding ( usually from the gastrointestinal tract . )
Tests for dengue virus-specific antibodies , types IgG and IgM , can be useful in confirming a diagnosis in the later stages of the infection .	However , antibody tests can confirm that a person has dengue in the later stages of the infection .
The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system and the autonomic nervous system ; some textbooks also include sensory systems .	The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system ( SNS ) and the autonomic nervous system ( ANS ) .
The peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) is the part of the nervous system consisting of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .	The Peripheral nervous system , or PNS , is part of the nervous system , and consists of the nerves and neurons that are outside the central nervous system ( the brain and spinal cord ) and serve the limbs and organs , for example .
Range of MIM codes : Method of inheritance These codes have been used in the medical literature to provide a unified index to genetic diseases .	Range of MIM codes : Method of inheritance These codes have been used in the medical literature to provide a unified index to genetic diseases .
Wherever a trait defined in this dictionary has a MIM number , the number from the 12th edition of MIM , is given in square brackets with or without an asterisk ( asterisks indicate that the mode of inheritance is known ; a number symbol ( # ) before an entry number means that the phenotype can be caused by mutation in any of two or more genes ) as appropriate e.g. , Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ( MIM # 312080 ) is an X-linked recessive disorder .	The MIM number is printed in square brackets with or without an asterisk ( asterisks indicate that the mode of inheritance is known ; a number symbol ( # ) before an entry number means that the phenotype can be caused by mutation in any of two or more genes ) as appropriate .
Every disease and gene is assigned a six digit number of which the first number classifies the method of inheritance .	Every disease and gene is given a six digit number .
Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man ( OMIM ) is a database that catalogues all the known diseases with a genetic component , and - when possible - links them to the relevant genes in the human genome and provides references for further research and tools for genomic analysis of a catalogued gene .	Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man ( OMIM ) is a database that keeps track of all known diseases with a genetic cause .
Thaxter died on August 14 , 2012 , in Longwood , Florida , after an eight - or nine-year battle with Alzheimer 's disease .	Thaxter died on August 14 , 2012 in her home in Longwood , Florida from Alzheimer 's disease , aged 92 .
Thaxter 's career stalled after an attack of polio in 1952 .	Thaxter 's career ended for a while after being ill of polio in 1952 .
The effects of child sexual abuse can include depression , post-traumatic stress disorder , anxiety , complex post-traumatic stress disorder , propensity to further victimization in adulthood , and physical injury to the child , among other problems .	These effects can include depression , post-traumatic stress disorder , anxiety , a higher chance of later abuse , and physical injury .
Child sexual abuse may cause infections and sexually transmitted diseases .	Sexual abuse does emotional harm to children .
Sociobiology investigates social behaviors , such as mating patterns , territorial fights , pack hunting , and the hive society of social insects .	Ethology investigates collective animal behavior , such as mating patterns , territorial fights , pack hunting , and the hive society of social insects .
The gut is U-shaped with the anterior mouth at the center of the lophophore .	The gut is U-shaped with the anterior mouth at the center of the lophophore .
The anus , where present , is also anterior , but is dorsal to the mouth .	The anus , where present , is also anterior , and is above the mouth .
He died intestate in Sydney on 21 July 1868 of pneumonia , and was accorded a State Funeral .	He died in Sydney on 21 July 1868 of pneumonia , and was given a State Funeral .
Hepatitis B is an infectious illness of the liver caused by the hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) that affects hominoidea , including humans .	Hepatitis B is a disease of the liver .
Her husband and her only child , a son named Bernard , both died in 1884 .	Both her husband and son died of tuberculosis in 1884 .
Specialized types of neurons include : sensory neurons which respond to touch , sound , light and all other stimuli affecting the cells of the sensory organs , that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain ; motor neurons that receive signals from the brain and spinal cord , to cause muscle contractions , and affect glandular outputs , and interneurons which connect neurons to other neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord , in neural networks .	Sensory neurons carry signals from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain .
May Lemke developed Alzheimer 's disease and died on November 6 , 1993 .	May Lemke developed Alzheimer 's disease and died on November 6 , 1993 .
At birth , he was diagnosed with glaucoma , cerebral palsy , and brain damage .	At birth , he was diagnosed with glaucoma , cerebral palsy , and brain damage .
Arnold died at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital , Norwich , on 23 September 2006 , after suffering from a chest infection .	Arnold died from a chest infection in September 2006 .
Some audience members experienced motion sickness and even vomiting as a result .	Some viewers had gotten motion sickness and even vomited as a result .
However , this does not necessarily make it a non-psychological condition .	It can be caused by : also psychological phobias .
In 1831 , an outbreak of cholera devastated the region and eliminated most if not all of the Mandaean religious authorities .	In 1831 , an outbreak of cholera devastated the region and eliminated most if not all of the Mandaean religious authorities .
The initial infection with varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) causes the acute , short-lived illness chickenpox which generally occurs in children and young adults .	Shingles is a viral disease produced by the varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) , the same virus that causes chicken pox .
Herpes zoster ( or simply zoster ) , commonly known as shingles and also known as zona , is a viral disease characterized by a painful skin rash with blisters in a limited area on one side of the body ( left or right ) , often in a stripe .	Herpes zoster ( also known as Shingles or Zona ) is a disease in humans .
The cannula is attached by tubing to a bottle and a pump that provides a vacuum to remove tissue from the uterus .	The cannula is attached to a bottle and a pump that create a vacuum .
A curette is used to scrape the lining of the uterus and remove tissue in the uterus .	The doctor may also use a curette to scrape out the lining of the uterus .
Forceps are inserted into the uterus through the vagina and used to extract any remaining tissue .	The doctor may use forceps to take out any tissue that is still in the uterus .
Research suggests that apple juice increases acetylcholine in the brain , possibly resulting in improved memory .	Research from the University of Massachusetts Lowell shows that apple juice also increases acetylcholine in the brain , which gets you increased memory .
Gustav Stresemann died of a stroke in October 1929 at the age of 51 .	Gustav Stresemann died of a stroke in October 1929 at the age of 51 .
His wife acknowledged that the attack was not stress-related , but rather a family issue , with Len 's mother having died from a heart attack at 47 .	His wife acknowledged that the attack was not stress-related , but rather a family issue , with Len 's mother having died from a heart attack at 47 .
On 31 May 2008 he suffered a heart attack , while at a music awards ceremony .	On 31 May 2008 he suffered a heart attack while at a music awards ceremony , and was admitted to Auckland Hospital .
Bipolar disorder ( also known as bipolar affective disorder , manic-depressive disorder , or manic depression ) is a mental illness typically classified as a mood disorder .	Bipolar disorder ( also known as manic depression ) is a form of mental illness characterised by repeated episodes of elevated ( mania ) and lowered mood ( depression ) .
The wedding was not completed , however , due to constant disruptions and Long having a heart attack just as he started to say `` I do '' .	However , the wedding was not completed due to constant disruptions and Long having a ( kayfabe ) heart attack just as he started to say `` I do '' .
Since the brain has stopped functioning , the hormone levels and blood pressure must be regulated by intensive care unit ( ICU ) personnel .	Since the brain does not work , the hormone levels and blood pressure must be controlled by doctors to keep the organs alive .
Since the protective ability of influenza vaccines depends primarily on the closeness of the match between the vaccine virus and the epidemic virus , the presence of nonreactive H3N2 SIV variants suggests current commercial vaccines might not effectively protect pigs from infection with a majority of H3N2 viruses .	Since the protective ability of influenza vaccines depends primarily on the closeness of the match between the vaccine virus and the epidemic virus , the presence of non-reactive H3N2 SIV variants suggests that current commercial vaccines might not effectively protect pigs from infection with a majority of H3N2 viruses .
The United States Department of Agriculture researchers say while pig vaccination keeps pigs from getting sick , it does not block infection or shedding of the virus .	The United States Department of Agriculture researchers say that while pig vaccination keeps pigs from getting sick , it does not block infection or shedding of the virus .
The swine flu in humans is most contagious during the first five days of the illness , although some people , most commonly children , can remain contagious for up to ten days .	The swine flu in humans is most contagious during the first five days of the illness although some people , most commonly children , can be contagious for up to ten days .
Avian influenza virus H3N2 is endemic in pigs in China , and has been detected in pigs in Vietnam , increasing fears of the emergence of new variant strains .	The bird flu virus H3N2 is endemic in pigs in China .
Swine influenza virus ( SIV ) or swine-origin influenza virus ( S-OIV ) is any strain of the influenza family of viruses that is endemic in pigs .	Swine influenza virus is sometimes called SIV or swine flu .
Swine influenza virus is common throughout pig populations worldwide .	Swine influenza virus is a virus that is common in pigs .
These H5N1 infections may be quite common ; in a survey of 10 apparently healthy pigs housed near poultry farms in West Java , where avian flu had broken out , five of the pig samples contained the H5N1 virus .	Five of the pig samples contained the H5N1 virus .
Vaccines are available for different kinds of swine flu .	There are different types , or strains , of swine flu .
As of 2009 , the known SIV strains include influenza C and the subtypes of influenza A known as H1N1 , H1N2 , H2N1 , H3N1 , H3N2 , and H2N3 .	They are called H1N1 , H1N2 , H3N1 , H3N2 , and H2N3 .
Influenza viruses infect both humans and pigs , but do not infect birds .	This type of influenza virus can also infect humans and birds .
These strains of swine flu rarely pass from human to human .	It resulted from a combination of several strains of influenza in humans and influenza in birds as well as swine influenza .
Swine influenza , also called pig influenza , swine flu , hog flu and pig flu , is an infection caused by any one of several types of swine influenza viruses .	Because of this , it is hard to tell the difference between ` normal ' influenza and swine influenza . )
Of the three genera of influenza viruses that cause human flu , two also cause influenza in pigs , with influenza A being common in pigs and influenza C being rare .	Pigs can carry human influenza viruses .
In 1998 , swine flu was found in pigs in four U.S. states .	Swine flu is common in pigs .
Prevention of human-to-human transmission Influenza spreads between humans when infected people cough or sneeze , then other people breathe in the virus or touch something with the virus on it and then touch their own face .	It is believed to be spread between humans when an infected person coughs or sneezes and then touches something .
Because these symptoms are not specific to swine flu , a differential diagnosis of probable swine flu requires not only symptoms , but also a high likelihood of swine flu due to the person 's recent history .	The main symptoms of the swine influenza is much the same as regular influenza .
Because of its limited host range and the lack of genetic diversity in influenza C , this form of influenza does not cause pandemics in humans .	The changes in the flu virus can cause a flu pandemic .
Females are only fertile during certain phases of the tidal cycle ; the ability to perceive the phase of the moon may therefore help prevent wasted mating efforts .	Females are only fertile during certain phases of the tidal cycle ; the ability to perceive the phase of the moon may therefore help prevent wasted mating efforts .
Griffith later admitted to having problems with cocaine and liquor after her divorce from Bauer .	Griffith later said she had problems with cocaine and liquor after her divorce from Bauer .
Several neurodegenerative and other diseases are believed to result from the accumulation of amyloid fibrils formed by misfolded proteins .	Several diseases are believed to result from misfolded proteins .
She died from the 1918 flu pandemic .	She died from the 1918 flu pandemic .
After serving in the Royal Flying Corps during the First World War , he maintained his reputation when cricket resumed in 1919 , but his career was threatened by appendicitis , which caused him to miss most of the 1921 season .	After the war , Hobbs was again successful against Australia , but his career was threatened by appendicitis which caused him to miss most of the 1921 season .
Two former members died within a few years of each other in the early 2000s ; Joe Nanini died of a brain hemorrhage on December 4 , 2000 , and Marc Moreland died of kidney and liver failure on March 13 , 2002 .	Guitarist Marc Moreland died of kidney and liver failure on March 13 , 2002 .
The term Chlamydia infection can also refer to infection caused by any species belonging to the bacterial family Chlamydiaceae .	The term Chlamydia infection can also refer to infections caused by any species belonging to the bacterial family Chlamydiaceae .
Chlamydia is a major infectious cause of human genital and eye disease .	Chlamydia is a major infectious cause of human genital and eye disease .
Chlamydia conjunctivitis or trachoma is a common cause of blindness worldwide .	Chlamydia conjunctivitis or trachoma is a common cause of blindness worldwide .
If left untreated , chlamydial infections can cause serious reproductive and other health problems with both short-term and long-term consequences .	Untreated , chlamydial infections can cause serious reproductive and other health problems with both short-term and long-term consequences .
Chlamydia can be transmitted during vaginal , anal , or oral sex , and can be passed from an infected mother to her baby during childbirth .	Chlamydia can be transmitted during vaginal , anal , or oral sex .
Between half and three-quarters of all women who have a chlamydia infection of the cervix ( cervicitis ) have no symptoms and do not know that they are infected .	Between half and three-quarters of all women who have chlamydia have no symptoms and do not know that they are infected .
Chlamydia infection ( from the Greek , χλαμύδα meaning `` cloak '' ) is a common sexually transmitted infection in humans caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis .	Chlamydia infection ( from the Greek , χλαμύδος meaning `` cloak '' ) is a common sexually transmitted infection ( STI ) in humans .
Chlamydia infection is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections worldwide ; it is estimated that about 1 million individuals in the United States are infected with chlamydia .	The infection is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections in people worldwide - about 2.8 million cases of chlamydia infection occur in the United States each year .
Bacterial croup may be divided into laryngeal diphtheria , bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis .	Bacterial croup includes laryngeal diphtheria , bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis .
Other viral causes include influenza A and B , measles , adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) .	Other viruses that can cause croup include influenza A and B , measles , adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) .
In cases of possible secondary bacterial infection , the antibiotics vancomycin and cefotaxime are recommended .	The antibiotics vancomycin and cefotaxime are recommended for bacterial infections .
The most common bacteria implicated are Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Hemophilus influenzae , and Moraxella catarrhalis .	The most common bacteria that cause croup areStaphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Hemophilus influenzae , and Moraxella catarrhalis .
Laryngeal diphtheria is due to Corynebacterium diphtheriae while bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis are usually due to a primary viral infection with secondary bacterial growth .	Corynebacterium diphtheriae causes laryngeal diphtheria ; bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis come from a virus infection , followed by a bacteria infection .
While epinephrine typically produces a reduction in croup severity within 10-30 minutes , the benefits last for only about 2 hours .	While epinephrine reduces croup severity within 10-30 minutes , the benefits last for only about 2 hours .
Drooling or a very sick appearance indicate other medical conditions .	Drooling or a sick appearance can mean a different illness .
In severe cases associated with influenza A or B , the antiviral neuraminidase inhibitors may be administered .	In severe cases associated with influenza A or B , theanti neuraminidase inhibitors can be given .
Spasmodic croup is caused by the same group of viruses as acute laryngotracheitis , but lacks the usual signs of infection ( such as fever , sore throat , and increased white blood cell count ) .	Spasmodic croup ( croup with barking ) does not have the usual signs of infection , such as fever , sore throat , and increased white blood cell count ) .
Corticosteroids , such as dexamethasone and budesonide , have been shown to improve outcomes in children with all severities of croup .	Corticosteroids , such as dexamethasone and budesonide , can be used to treat croup .
Viral croup or acute laryngotracheitis is caused by parainfluenza virus , primarily types 1 and 2 , in 75 % of cases .	In 75 % of cases , the parainfluenza virus , mainly types 1 and 2 , causes croup .
While other treatments for croup have been studied , none have sufficient evidence to support their use .	There is not enough evidence that other treatments for croup are helpful .
Croup is characterized by a `` barking '' cough , stridor , hoarseness , and difficult breathing which usually worsens at night .	Croup symptoms include a `` barking '' cough , stridor ( a high pitched sound typically when breathing in ) , hoarseness , and difficult breathing that are worse at night .
Moderate to severe croup may be improved temporarily with nebulized epinephrine .	Moderate to severe croup can be helped with nebulized epinephrine ( an inhaled solution that widens the airway ) .
Since croup is usually a viral disease , antibiotics are not used unless secondary bacterial infection is suspected .	Since most cases of croup is are diseases , antibiotics are not used unless bacteria are also suspected .
During this time , the female feeds the developing offspring with a milky substance secreted by a modified gland in the uterus .	During this time , the female feeds the developing offspring with a milky substance secreted by a modified gland in the uterus .
Joss Whedon posted a message on a popular fan site , The Bronze : Beta , in which he expressed his dismay and surprise , saying he was `` heartbroken '' and compared it to a `` healthy guy falling dead from a heart attack . ''	Joss Whedon posted a message on a popular fan site , The Bronze : Beta , in which he showed his surprise .
She has said that she feels that she actually had borderline personality disorder .	She believes that she was misdiagnosed and that she actually had borderline personality disorder .
In 1742 Maria Anna took over power as regent after her husband suffered a stroke , which left him partially paralyzed .	She was the mother of six children : In 1742 Maria Anna took over power as regent after her husband suffered a stroke , which left him partially paralyzed .
Severe malaria is usually caused by P. falciparum ( often referred to as falciparum malaria ) .	Falciparum malaria has the most complications .
Vector control refers to methods used to decrease malaria by reducing the levels of transmission by mosquitoes .	Vector control is one way to stop malaria .
Disease transmission can be reduced by preventing mosquito bites by using mosquito nets and insect repellents , or with mosquito-control measures such as spraying insecticides and draining standing water .	When sleeping outside , people use a mosquito net .
Infection with P. falciparum may result in cerebral malaria , a form of severe malaria that involves encephalopathy .	P. falciparum is the most dangerous type of malaria .
SIUT was founded by Dr. Adibul Hasan Rizvi and it is Pakistan 's largest kidney disease center , as well as Pakistan 's largest public sector health organization .	It was founded by Dr. Syed Adeebul Hasan Rizvi and it is the country 's largest kidney disease center , as well as Parkistan 's largest public sector health organization .
The appendix is located near the junction of the small intestine and the large intestine .	The appendix is near the junction of the small intestine and the large intestine .
In the early 1970s , she became a founding member of The Furies Collective , a lesbian feminist newspaper collective which held that heterosexuality was the root of all oppression .	In the 1970s , she became helped start The Furies Collective , a lesbian feminist newspaper collective which said that heterosexuality was the cause of all oppression .
Gertrude Baines married Sam Conley at a `` very young age '' and had a daughter , Annabelle , born in 1909 , who died of typhoid fever at the age of 18 .	Gertrude Baines married Sam Conley at a very young age and had one daughter who died of typhoid fever at the age of 18 .
He was hanged , drawn and quartered - strangled by hanging , but released while he was still alive , emasculated , eviscerated and his bowels burnt before him , beheaded , then cut into four parts .	It meant he was strangled by hanging but released while he was still alive , his body cut open , and his bowels burnt before him .
In general , sexual activities that cause air to enter the vagina can lead to a fatal air embolism , and the risk is probably even higher during pregnancy .	In general , sexual activities that cause air to enter the vagina can lead to a fatal air clot , and the risk is probably even higher during pregnancy .
Fisting can cause laceration or perforation of the vagina , perineum , rectum , and\/or colon , resulting in serious injury and even death .	Fisting can cause lacerations to the vagina , perineum , rectum , and\/or colon .
The practice , along with the insertion of hard objects into the anus , has been significantly related to the traumatization of the rectal mucosa in increasing the likelihood of infection , including Hepatitis B.	The practice , along with the insertion of hard objects into the anus , or the vagina has been significantly related to the traumatization of the vaginal or rectal mucosa in increasing the likelihood of infection , including Hepatitis B virus .
Anal fisting carries risks of colorectal perforation ; participants are advised to use latex gloves and lubricant , and designate a safeword , the utterance of which will call an immediate halt to the activity .	Anal fisting carries risks of colorectal tearing ; people doing it should use latex gloves and lubricant , and have a safeword , which they can say when they want it to stop immediately .
In the case of double-fisting , pleasure is derived more from the stretching of the anus or vagina than from the thrusting ( in-and-out ) movement of hands .	Double fisting pleasure depends more on stretching of the anus or vagina rather than thrusting with an in-and-out movement of the hands .
The giant nerve fibers of the cephalopod mantle have been widely used for many years as experimental material in neurophysiology ; their large diameter ( due to lack of myelination ) makes them relatively easy to study compared with other animals .	The giant nerve fibers of the cephalopod mantle have been a favorite experimental material for many years ; their large diameter makes them easier to study .
Excretion is the process by which waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials are eliminated from an organism .	It is the process of eliminating waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials .
Some texts do not invoke the gods , however , but merely list the targets of the curse , the crimes or conditions upon which the curse is valid , and\/or the intended ill to befall them .	Some texts do not invoke the gods , but merely list the targets of the curse , the crimes or conditions when the curse is valid , and\/or the intended ill to befall them .
Finally , in 1931 , suffering from the extreme ravages of diabetes that had necessitated the amputation of his left foot , Eugène Ysaÿe died in his house in Brussels and was interred in the Ixelles Cemetery in Brussels .	In 1931 , suffering from diabetes , Eugène Ysaÿe died in his house in Brussels .
Training commonly uses the technique of progressively increasing the force output of the muscle through incremental weight increases and uses a variety of exercises and types of equipment to target specific muscle groups .	Training commonly uses the technique of progressively increasing the force output of the muscle through incremental increases of weight , elastic tension or other resistance , and uses a variety of exercises and types of training equipment to target specific muscle groups .
When properly performed , strength training can provide significant functional benefits and improvement in overall health and well-being , including increased bone , muscle , tendon and ligament strength and toughness , improved joint function , reduced potential for injury , increased bone density , increased metabolism , improved cardiac function , and elevated HDL ( `` good '' ) cholesterol .	When properly performed , strength training can provide significant functional benefits and improvement in overall health and well-being , including increased bone , muscle , tendon and ligament strength , improved joint function , reduced potential for injury , increased bone density , a temporary increase in metabolism , improved cardiac function .
Before the Japanese Grand Prix , Nannini was involved in a helicopter crash and sustained career-ending injuries ( though he would later return to touring car racing ) .	Before the Japanese Grand Prix , Nannini was involved in a helicopter crash and sustained career-ending injuries ( though he would later return to touring car racing ) .
Dissociative identity disorder ( DID ) , previously known as multiple personality disorder ( MPD ) , is a mental disorder on the dissociative spectrum characterized by at least two distinct and relatively enduring identities or dissociated personality states that alternately control a person 's behavior , and is accompanied by memory impairment for important information not explained by ordinary forgetfulness .	Dissociative identity disorder ( DID ) , is a mental disorder .
She had suffered from breast cancer for several years before she died in her sleep at her home in Carry-le-Rouet , Bouches-du-Rhône , on April 21 , 2003 .	She died of the disease in her sleep at her home in Carry-le-Rouet , Bouches-du-Rhône on April 21 , 2003 .
Zinc deficiency affects about two billion people in the developing world and is associated with many diseases .	Almost two billion people have a zinc deficiency .
Altricial , meaning `` requiring nourishment '' , refers to a pattern of growth and development in organisms which are incapable of moving around on their own soon after hatching or being born .	Altricial , meaning `` requiring care '' , refers to a group or kind of creature that is incapable of moving around on its own soon after hatching or being born .
His son became the next Inca without any known dispute after Pachacuti died in 1471 due to a terminal illness , but in future generations , the next Inca had to gain control of the empire by winning enough support from the apos , priesthood , and military to win a civil war or intimidate anyone else from trying to wrest control of the empire .	His son became the next Inca without any known dispute , but in future generations the next Inca had to gain control of the empire by winning enough support from the apos , priesthood , and military to either win a civil war or intimidate anyone else from trying to get control of the empire .
Their mother Marie Josèphe , who never recovered from the loss of her husband , died in March 1767 from tuberculosis .	Charles ' mother , Marie Josèphe , never recovered from the loss of her husband and she died in March 1767 from tuberculosis .
It is one of the rarest forms of synesthesia .	Mozart is said to have had this form of synesthesia .
His best known work is without doubt the short novel The Black Spider ( Die schwarze Spinne ) , a semi-allegorical tale of the plague in form of the titular monster that devastates a Swiss valley community ; first as a result of a pact with the devil born out of need and a second time due to the moral decay that releases the monster from its prison again .	His best known work is without doubt the short novel Die Schwarze Spinne ( The Black Spider ) , a semi-allegorical tale of the plague in form of the titular monster that devastates a Swiss valley community ; first as a result of a pact with the devil born out of need and a second time due to the moral decay that releases the monster from its prison again .
Holiday said she began using hard drugs in the early 1940s .	Holiday said that she began using hard drugs in the early 1940s .
She was arrested for drug possession as she lay dying , and her hospital room was raided .	She was arrested for drug possession as she lay dying and her hospital room was raided by the police .
On May 31 , 1959 , Holiday was taken to Metropolitan Hospital in New York with liver and heart disease .	On May 31 , 1959 , Holiday was taken to the Metropolitan Hospital in New York .
On May 16 , 1947 , she was arrested for possessing narcotics in her New York apartment .	On May 16 , 1947 , Holiday was arrested for the possession of narcotics and drugs in her New York apartment .
Holiday stayed under police guard until she died from pulmonary edema and heart failure caused by cirrhosis of the liver on July 17 , 1959 .	They kept guarding her at the hospital until she died from cirrhosis of the liver on July 17 , 1959 .
According to a survey in 2007 by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime , 93 % of the opiates on the world market originated in Afghanistan .	In 2007 the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said 93 % of the opiates on the world market came from Afghanistan .
Investigators studying the origin of life have produced ribozymes in the laboratory that are capable of catalyzing their own synthesis under very specific conditions , such as an RNA polymerase ribozyme .	Investigators studying the origin of life have produced ribozymes in the laboratory that can catalyze their own synthesis under certain conditions , such as an RNA polymerase ribozyme .
The captain of the Manilus , known in the Victorian Shipping records as the `` Plague ship '' , would not receive his bounty as forty-five of the ship 's 243 passengers had been lost to yellow fever during the journey from Scotland 's shores .	Forty-five of the ship 's 243 passengers had died from yellow fever during the journey from Scotland 's shores .
In his later years , Boyle suffered from kidney disease , and due to complications from this disease , died in a hospital in Wallace on May 7 , 2011 .	Boyle died in Wallace from kidney disease .
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) is a bacterium responsible for several difficult-to-treat infections in humans .	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus , or MRSA , is a bacterium which causes infections in different parts of the body .
Historically , major MRSA clones : ST2470-MRSA-I , ST239-MRSA-III , ST5-MRSA-II , and ST5-MRSA-IV were responsible for causing hospital-acquired MRSA ( HA-MRSA ) infections .	Though most MRSA infections are n't serious , some can be life-threatening .
In anatomy , a ganglion ( \/ ˈɡæŋɡliən \/ GANG-glee-ən ; plural ganglia ) is a nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies outside of the central nervous system .	It is a mass of nerve cell bodies .
Cells found in a ganglion are called ganglion cells , though this term is also sometimes used to refer specifically to retinal ganglion cells .	In another usage , ganglion cells are found in the retina of the vertebrate eye .
Initially early farmers simply selected food plants with particular desirable characteristics , and employed these as progenitors for subsequent generations , resulting in an accumulation of valuable traits over time .	Initially early farmers simply selected food plants with particular desirable characteristics , and employed these as progenitors for subsequent generations , resulting in an accumulation of valuable traits over time .
International development agencies believe that breeding new crops is important for ensuring food security by developing new varieties that are higher-yielding , resistant to pests and diseases , drought-resistant or regionally adapted to different environments and growing conditions .	They are higher-yielding , resistant to pests and diseases , drought-resistant or adapted to different environments and growing conditions .
The Declaration of Montreal on Lesbian , Gay , Bisexual , and Transgender Human Rights is a document adopted in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , on July 29 , 2006 , by the International Conference on LGBT Human Rights which formed part of the first World Outgames .	The Declaration of Montreal on Lesbian , Gay , Bisexual , and Transgender Human Rights is a document for human rights of lesbians , gays , bisexuals , and transgendered persons as well as intersex people adopted at an international meeting held in Montreal on 29 July 2006 .
The disease may also be spread through blood transfusion , organ transplantation , eating food contaminated with the parasites , and from a mother to her fetus .	The disease can also be spread by blood transfusion , organ transplantation , or by eating food contaminated with the parasite .
The disease was first described in 1909 by Carlos Chagas after whom it is named .	Carlos Chagas first described it in 1909 .
Chagas disease \/ ˈtʃɑːɡəs \/ , or American trypanosomiasis , is a tropical parasitic disease caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi and spread mostly by insects known as Triatominae or kissing bugs .	Chagas disease is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi .
These mechanisms include phagocytosis , antimicrobial peptides called defensins , and the complement system .	These mechanisms include antimicrobial peptides ( called defensins ) , phagocytosis , and the complement system .
Common autoimmune diseases include Hashimoto 's thyroiditis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetes mellitus type 1 , and systemic lupus erythematosus .	Common autoimmune diseases include Hashimoto 's thyroiditis , rheumatoid arthritis , Type 1 diabetes , and Lupus erythematosus .
In contrast , autoimmunity results from a hyperactive immune system attacking normal tissues as if they were foreign organisms .	In contrast , autoimmune diseases result from an immune system that attacks normal tissues as if they were foreign organisms .
Even simple unicellular organisms such as bacteria possess a rudimentary immune system , in the form of enzymes that protect against bacteriophage infections .	Even simple unicellular organisms such as bacteria possess enzyme systems that protect against viral infections .
Disorders of the immune system can result in autoimmune diseases , inflammatory diseases and cancer .	These result in other diseases , including autoimmune diseases , inflammatory diseases and possibly even cancer .
Immunodeficiency occurs when the immune system is less active than normal , resulting in recurring and life-threatening infections .	Immunodeficiency diseases occur when the immune system is less active than normal .
To function properly , an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents , known as pathogens , from viruses to parasitic worms , and distinguish them from the organism 's own healthy tissue .	The immune system can detect and identify many different kinds of disease agents .
The innate immune system is the dominant system of host defense in most organisms .	These are the innate immune system , which defends the host from infections in a non-specific way .
If the body is unable to maintain a normal temperature and it increases significantly above normal , a condition known as hyperthermia occurs .	If the body is unable to maintain a normal temperature and it increases significantly above normal , a condition known as hyperthermia occurs .
The opposite condition , when body temperature decreases below normal levels , is known as hypothermia .	The opposite condition , when body temperature decreases below normal levels , is known as hypothermia .
The excretory duct of each seminal gland opens into the vas deferens as it enters the prostate gland .	There is a tube linking the seminal glands which opens into the vas deferens and prostate gland .
The seminal vesicles are arranged as a series of glands which drain into a central duct .	The seminal vesicles are a pair of tube-like glands .
The time variable of right atrial systole , is ( TV ) open to ( TV ) close .	This is called `` atrial systole '' .
Mechanical systole is the origin of the pulse .	This phase is the origin of the pulse .
Most of the capsaicin in a pungent ( hot ) pepper is concentrated in blisters on the epidermis of the interior ribs ( septa ) that divide the chambers of the fruit to which the seeds are attached .	Most of the capsaicin in a pepper is found in the interior ribs that divide the chambers of the fruit , and to which the seeds are attached .
The fruit of most species of Capsicum contains capsaicin ( methyl vanillyl nonenamide ) , a lipophilic chemical that can produce a strong burning sensation ( pungency or spiciness ) in the mouth of the unaccustomed eater .	The fruit of most species of Capsicum contains capsaicin .
Hence , euthanasia can be voluntary only . ''	Euthanasia can be voluntary , where the person who dies specifically asks for help in ending their life .
An altered state of consciousness ( ASC ) , also called altered state of mind , is any condition which is significantly different from a normal waking beta wave state .	An altered state of consciousness ( ASC ) , or altered state of mind , is any condition which is significantly different from a normal waking state .
At the hospital , the doctors decided that he was mentally unstable .	At the hospital , the doctors said he was mentally unstable .
He has a vision impairment , retinitis pigmentosa , a degenerative disease .	Doctors learned he had retinitis pigmentosa , an eye disease that means he sees worse over time .
Oxytocin secreted from the pituitary gland can not re-enter the brain because of the blood-brain barrier .	Strange to say , the oxytocin released by the pituitary gland can not reach the brain : it does have effects on the rest of the body .
Leakey was diagnosed with a terminal kidney disease in 1969 .	Leakey was diagnosed with a terminal kidney disease in 1969 .
In August 1994 , at the age of 83 , Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease , an incurable neurological disorder which destroys brain cells and ultimately causes death .	In 1994 , Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease .
But there was also speculation over how long Reagan had demonstrated symptoms of mental degeneration .	In November 1994 , Reagan wrote a public letter about having Alzheimer 's disease , writing : After announcing his disease , many people sent supporting letters to his California home , but there was also an opinion based on unfinished evidence that continued how long Reagan had showed symptoms of mental decline .
He said that chromosomes were `` independent entities which retain their independence even in the resting nucleus ... What comes out of the nucleus is what goes into it '' .	He said that chromosomes were `` independent entities which retain their independence even in the resting nucleus ... What comes out of the nucleus is what goes into it '' .
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units-each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains .	Antibodies are typically made of basic structural units-each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains .
In his 1995 novel Blindness , an entire unnamed country is stricken with a mysterious plague of `` white blindness '' .	In his 1995 novel , Blindness , an entire country is stricken with a mysterious plague called `` white blindness '' .
Michael Howell and Daniel Goldsmith , the founders , established ReachOut in 1997 as a company that coordinated dental services to nursing home patients in Michigan .	Michael Howell and Daniel Goldsmith started the ReachOut company in 1997 .
In females , an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum .	In females , an LH surge triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum ( a temporary endocrine structure in female mammals that promotes relatively high levels of progesterone ) .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland .	Luteinizing hormone ( LH , lutropin or lutrophin ) is a sex hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
A conversion from a negative to a positive reading would suggest that ovulation is about to occur within 24-48 hours , giving women two days to engage in sexual intercourse or artificial insemination with the intentions of conceiving .	The women has two days to engage in sexual intercourse or artificial insemination with the intentions of conceiving .
LH can be detected by urinary ovulation predictor kits ( OPK , also LH-kit ) that are performed , typically daily , around the time ovulation may be expected .	LH can be detected by urinary test kits .
In Alzheimer 's disease , the hippocampus is one of the first regions of the brain to suffer damage ; memory loss and disorientation are included among the early symptoms .	In Alzheimer 's disease , the hippocampus is one of the first regions of the brain to suffer damage ; memory loss and disorientation are included among the early symptoms .
In the ensuing years , other patients with similar levels of hippocampal damage and amnesia ( caused by accident or disease ) have also been studied , and thousands of experiments have studied the physiology of activity-driven changes in synaptic connections in the hippocampus .	Thousands of experiments have studied the physiology of changes in synaptic connections in the hippocampus after activity .
In humans , cells with location-specific firing patterns have been reported in a study of patients with drug-resistant epilepsy who were undergoing an invasive procedure to localize the source of their seizures , with a view to surgical resection .	In humans , cells with location-specific firing patterns have been reported in a study .
Narcolepsy is a neurological sleep disorder .	Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder .
In 2010 at The Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development , Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological ( Biological ) and Toxin Weapons and Their Destruction in Geneva the sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance was suggested as well-tested means for enhancing the monitoring of infections and parasitic agents , for practical implementation of the International Health Regulations ( 2005 ) .	In 2010 at The Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development , Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological ( Biological ) and Toxin Weapons and Their Destruction in Geneva the sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance was suggested as means for monitoring of infections and parasitic agents and for practical implementation of the International Health Regulations ( 2005 ) .
Any group for sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance includes : epidemiologist , specialist on infections , assistant of epidemiologist ( bacteriologist-lab assistant ) , medical orderly ( if necessary , the group will include zoologist or parasitologist ) .	Mobile equipped group for sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance includes : epidemiologist , specialist on infections , assistant of epidemiologist ( bacteriologist - lab assistant ) , medical orderly ( if necessary , the group will include zoologist or parasitologist ) .
It is pointed out the significance of the sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance in assessing the sanitary-epidemiological situation , organizing and conducting preventive activities , indicating and identifying pathogenic biological agents in the environmental sites , conducting laboratory analysis of biological materials , suppressing hotbeds of infectious diseases , providing advisory and practical assistance to local health authorities .	The sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance will be important in assessing the sanitary-epidemiological situation , organizing and conducting preventive activities , indicating and identifying pathogenic biological agents , suppressing hotbeds of infectious diseases , providing advisory and practical assistance to local health authorities .
The aim was to prevent and minimize the consequences of natural outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases as well as the treat of alleged use of biological weapons against BTWC States Parties .	The aim was to prevent and minimize the consequences of natural outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases , the treat of alleged use of biological weapons .
These units should be formed up in the deployable medical set-ups Sanitary-epidemiological reconnaissance should result in revealing of the patients and persons , suspected to the specific disease , their isolation and hospitalization .	It should result in revealing of the patients and persons , suspected to the specific disease , their isolation and hospitalization .
About natural focality of the diseases is known elsewhere Historically , Sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance implied collection and transfer of all data available on sanitary and epidemiological situation of the area of possible deployment and action of armed forces , the same data for the neighbouring and enemy armed forces .	The Polish contingents serving under the UN auspices focused their tasks among others on ... sanitary-epidemiological reconnaissance ... Sanitary epidemiological reconnaissance is a collection and transfer of all data available on sanitary and epidemiological situation of the area of possible deployment and action of armed forces , the same data for the neighbouring and enemy armed forces .
Mobile sanitary epidemiological detachments followed immediately behind the first echelon of tanks and mechanized vehicles of advancing Soviet army should they encounter any particular contagious disease .	It has been used in the Soviet Japanese campaign in WWII immediately behind the first echelon of tanks and mechanized vehicles of advancing Soviet army should they encounter any particular contagious disease as withdrawing enemy forces had poisoned many wells and water sources .
Diabetic retinopathy often has no early warning signs .	Diabetic retinopathy often has no early warning signs .
In extreme cases , a person will only be able to tell light from dark in that eye .	In extreme cases , a person will only be able to tell light from dark in that eye .
On funduscopic exam , a doctor will see cotton wool spots , flame hemorrhages ( similar lesions are also caused by the alpha-toxin of Clostridium novyi ) , and dot-blot hemorrhages .	On funduscopic exam , a doctor will see spots , flame hemorrhages , and dot-blot hemorrhages .
It is an ocular manifestation of diabetes , a systemic disease , which affects up to 80 percent of all patients who have had diabetes for 10 years or more .	It affects up to 80 percent of all patients who have had diabetes for 10 years or more .
On the second stage , as abnormal new blood vessels ( neovascularisation ) form at the back of the eye as a part of proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) , they can burst and bleed ( vitreous hemorrhage ) and blur vision , because the new blood vessels are weak .	As new blood vessels form at the back of the eye as a part of proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) , they can bleed ( ocular hemorrhage ) and blur vision .
Diabetic retinopathy , ( ( ˌrɛtnˈɑpəθi ) ) is retinopathy ( damage to the retina ) caused by complications of diabetes , which can eventually lead to blindness .	Diabetic retinopathy , is the most common eye disease caused by diabetes , it damages the retinas in both eyes , causing vision problems which may lead to blindness .
With R. A. Fisher and J.B.S. Haldane , he was a founder of theoretical population genetics .	With R.A. Fisher and J.B.S. Haldane , he was a founder of theoretical population genetics .
Guthrie died of complications of Huntington 's disease on October 3 , 1967 .	Guthrie died in 1967 , from the effects of Huntington 's disease .
Diverticulitis is a common digestive disease which involves the formation of pouches ( diverticula ) within the bowel wall .	Diverticulitis is a disease of the digestive system .
The primary bowel resection is the standard procedure for diverticulitis .	The resection of the colon is the procedure most often used to treat severe diverticulitis .
This process is known as diverticulosis , and typically occurs within the large intestine , or colon , although it can occasionally occur in the small intestine as well .	It usually occurs in the large intestine .
The most common symptom of diverticulitis is abdominal pain .	Symptoms of diverticulitis depend on the extent of inflammation in the intestine .
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ( TSEs ) , also known as prion diseases , are a group of progressive conditions ( encephalopathies ) that affect the brain and nervous system of many animals , including humans .	A prion disease ( also called transmissible spongiform encephalopathy ) is a disease which is caused by prions .
Hypertension ( HTN ) or high blood pressure , sometimes called arterial hypertension , is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is elevated .	Hypertension or high blood pressure , is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is higher than it should be .
Reduction of the blood pressure by 5 mmHg can decrease the risk of stroke by 34 % , of ischaemic heart disease by 21 % , and reduce the likelihood of dementia , heart failure , and mortality from cardiovascular disease .	For example , reducing blood pressure by 5 mmHg ( e.g. from 150\/100 to 145\/95 mmHg ) can decrease the risk of stroke by 34 % and of heart disease by 21 % .
Secondary hypertension results from an identifiable cause .	Secondary hypertension means that the hypertension is caused by another disease .
In July 2007 , an outbreak was reported in the Spanish autonomous region of Castile and León and traced to the plague of voles infesting the region .	In July 2007 , an outbreak was reported in the Spanish autonomous region of Castile and León and traced to the plague of voles infesting the region .
Over the following summers , Martha 's Vineyard was identified as the only place in the world where documented cases of tularemia resulted from lawn mowing .	Over the following summers , Martha 's Vineyard was identified as the only place in the world where documented cases of tularemia resulted from lawn mowing .
An outbreak of tularemia occurred in Kosovo in 1999-2000 .	An outbreak of tularemia occurred in Kosovo in 1999-2000 .
From May to October 2000 , an outbreak of tularemia in Martha 's Vineyard resulted in one fatality , and brought the interest of the CDC as a potential investigative ground for aerosolized Francisella tularensis .	It brought the interest of the CDC as a potential investigative ground for aerosolized Francisella tularensis .
Tularemia ( or tularemia ; also known as Pahvant Valley plague , rabbit fever , deer fly fever , and Ohara 's fever ) is a serious infectious disease caused by the bacterium Francisella tularensis .	Tularemia ( also called `` Goblin Fever '' , `` deer-fly fever '' , `` Ohara fever '' and `` Francis disease '' ) is a disease .
Carpenter suffered from anorexia nervosa , an eating disorder which was little known at the time .	Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder .
She died at age 32 from heart failure caused by complications related to her illness .	The cause of her death was heart failure , from complications related to her illness which caused her to believe mistakenly that she needed to lose weight .
This is in contrast to later Paralympics that include events for participants that fit into any of five different disability categories ; amputation , either congenital or sustained through injury or illness ; cerebral palsy ; wheelchair athletes ; visual impairment , including blindness ; Les autres , any physical disability that does not fall strictly under one of the other categories , for example dwarfism or multiple sclerosis .	This is different from later Paralympics that include events for participants that fit into any of five different disability categories ; amputation , either congenital or sustained through injury or illness ; cerebral palsy ; wheelchair athletes ; visual impairment , including blindness ; Les autres , any physical disability that does not fall strictly under one of the other categories , for example dwarfism or multiple sclerosis .
Common examples of non-radioactive carcinogens are inhaled asbestos , certain dioxins , and tobacco smoke .	A common example of a carcinogen is tobacco smoke .
Products made from neem trees have been used in India for over two millennia for their medicinal properties .	Products made from neem have been used in India for over two millennia for their medicinal properties : they are said to be antifungal , antidiabetic , antibacterial , antiviral , contraceptive and sedative .
Although his condition was incurable , Merrick was allowed to stay at the hospital for the remainder of his life .	Merrick was allowed to live there for the rest of his life .
Processes that increase the rate of changes in DNA are called mutagenic : mutagenic chemicals promote errors in DNA replication , often by interfering with the structure of base-pairing , while UV radiation induces mutations by causing damage to the DNA structure .	Mutagenic chemicals increase errors in DNA replication , often by interfering with the structure of base-pairing , while UV radiation induces mutations by causing damage to the DNA structure .
These errors create large structural changes in DNA sequence - duplications , inversions , deletions of entire regions - or the accidental exchange of whole parts of sequences between different chromosomes ( chromosomal translocation ) .	These errors create large structural changes in DNA sequence-duplications , inversions or deletions of entire regions , or the accidental exchanging of whole parts between different chromosomes ( called translocation ) .
When studying human genetic diseases , geneticists often use pedigree charts to represent the inheritance of traits .	Geneticists can also use pedigree charts to predict how traits will be passed to future children in a family .
`` Mental illnesses '' are really problems in living .	He said that mental illness is not an illness of the brain but `` problems of living '' .
In patients at high risk of ventricular fibrillation , the use of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator has been shown to be beneficial .	In patients at high risk of ventricular fibrillation the use of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator has been shown to help .
Ventricular fibrillation is a medical emergency that requires prompt Advanced Life Support interventions .	Ventricular fibrillation is a medical emergency .
On April 26 , 1989 , Ball died of a dissecting aortic aneurysm at age 77 .	On 26 April 1989 , Ball died of an aortic aneurysm at age 77 .
However , as in green eyeshades , the color also serves a useful function : Humans have a higher light sensitivity to green than to any other color , so green cloth permits play for longer periods of time without eye strain .	However , the color also serves a useful function .
When the humidex hits 54 , heat stroke is imminent .	When the humidex hits 54 , then heat stroke is very near .
Then , on September 11 , 2012 , Matyushenko pulled out of the fight after suffering a torn achilles tendon while training , and Hamill vs. Hollett was rebooked by UFC officials .	Then , on September 11 , 2012 , Matyushenko pulled out of the fight after suffering a torn achilles tendon while training , and Hamill vs. Hollett was rebooked by UFC officials .
Hunter , said to be a CIA propagandist , wrote a series of books and articles on the theme of Chinese brainwashing , and the word brainwashing quickly became a stock phrase in Cold War headlines .	During the Korean War , Hunter , who worked at the time both as a journalist before becoming a U.S. intelligence agent , wrote a series of books and articles on the theme of Chinese brainwashing .
There are conflicting accounts as to the origin of eggs Benedict , including : In an interview recorded in the `` Talk of the Town '' column of The New Yorker in 1942 , the year before his death , Lemuel Benedict , a retired Wall Street stock broker , claimed that he had wandered into the Waldorf Hotel in 1894 and , hoping to find a cure for his morning hangover , ordered `` buttered toast , poached eggs , crisp bacon , and Hollandaise . ''	In an interview in the The New Yorker magazine in 1942 , Lemuel Benedict , a retired Wall Street stock broker , said that he had wandered into the Waldorf Hotel in 1894 and , hoping to find a cure for his morning hangover , ordered `` buttered toast , poached eggs , crisp bacon and a hooker of hollandaise . ''
After seeing a specialist , it was announced on 12 August 2009 that Coverdale had been suffering from severe vocal fold edema and a left vocal fold vascular lesion .	After seeing a specialist , it was announced on 12 August 2009 that Coverdale is suffering from severe vocal fold edema .
In 1985 , Sykes and Coverdale started working on new songs for the next album , but Coverdale soon contracted a serious sinus infection that made recording close to impossible for much of 1986 and which had doctors thinking he might never sing again .	In 1985 , Sykes and Coverdale started working on new songs for the next album .
He died in Grenada , Mississippi .	He died 1966 from a heart attack in Grenada , Mississippi .
The visual system is the part of the central nervous system which gives organisms the ability to process visual detail , as well as enabling the formation of several non-image photo response functions .	The visual system is the part of the nervous system which allows organisms to see .
When this type of cartilage starts to wear out ( a process called arthritis ) , the joint becomes painful and stiff .	When this type of cartilage starts to wear out ( a process called arthritis ) , the joint becomes painful and stiff .
Bey died on 30 September 2012 from Parkinson 's disease .	Turhan Bey died in Vienna on September 30 , 2012 after being ill with Parkinson 's disease for a long time .
In 1973 , Sattar fell extremely ill with a case of blood poisoning .	In 1973 , Sattar became extremely ill due to blood poisoning and he died in 1974 in Moscow .
Her research is to identify a novel approach to the treatment of Parkinson 's disease and Alzheimer 's disease .	She specializes in studying how the human brain works and has done a lot of research into diseases such as Parkinson 's disease and Alzheimer 's disease which are common in older people .
After several weeks on the road , Hoon was found dead on the band 's tour bus of a heart attack caused by a cocaine overdose , on October 21 , 1995 in New Orleans .	On October 21 , 1995 , Lead singer Shannon Hoon was found dead on the band 's tour bus of a heart attack caused by a cocaine overdose .
See ischemic colitis for ischemia of the large bowel Mesenteric ischemia ( or Mesenteric ischemia - British English ) is a medical condition in which inflammation and injury of the small intestine result from inadequate blood supply .	Mesenteric ischemia is a medical condition in which inflammation and injury of the small intestine result from not enough blood getting to it .
Causes of the reduced blood flow can include changes in the systemic circulation ( e.g. low blood pressure ) or local factors such as constriction of blood vessels or a blood clot .	Causes for the small amount of blood include low blood pressure , blood vessels becoming smaller , or a blood clot .
During his time , a dominant idea was that bad air quality caused disease .	During that time , people thought that bad air quality made people sick .
This fluid helps to lubricate the urethra for spermatozoa to pass through , neutralizing traces of acidic urine in the urethra , and helps flush out any residual urine or foreign matter .	This fluid helps to lubricate the urethra for sperm to pass through .
Bulbourethral glands are located posterior and lateral to the membranous portion of the urethra at the base of the penis , between the two layers of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm , in the deep perineal pouch .	Bulbourethral glands are found near the urethra at the base of the penis , between the two layers of the fascia .
He established the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism for the investigation of developmental biology , and founded the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley , California , U.S. .	He established the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism for the investigation of developmental biology , and founded the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley , California .
Ray died in prison on April 23 , 1998 , at the age of 70 from complications related to kidney disease , caused by hepatitis C ( probably contracted as a result of a blood transfusion given after a stabbing while at Brushy Mountain State Penitentiary ) .	He died in prison on April 23 , 1998 , at the age of 70 .
The left kidney and the major part of the uterus had been removed .	The left kidney and the major part of the uterus had been removed .
Frontal bossing is usually seen in a few rare medical syndromes such as acromegaly - a chronic medical disorder in which the anterior pituitary gland produces excess growth hormone ( GH ) .	Frontal bossing is usually seen in a few rare medical syndromes such as acromegaly - a chronic medical disorder in which the anterior pituitary gland makes to much growth hormone ( GH ) .
Although his parents lived in the United States at the time , his father suffered a heart attack during a family visit to Brazil , which delayed their return to the United States and led to the birth of Roberto in Brazil .	At the time Unger 's parents lived in the United States , but Unger 's father had suffered a heart attack during a family visit to Brazil .
However , Byron died on 12 April 2007 after a heart attack and N-Dubz wrote the song `` Papa ( Can You Hear Me ? ) ''	When Byron died , the song N-Dubz wrote `` Papa ( Can You Hear Me ? ) ''
On January 9 , 1997 , White died from a heart attack following surgery , only five days after his 80th birthday .	White died on January 9 , 1997 from complications of a heart attack following a surgical operation .
The ovarian cycle consists of the follicular phase , ovulation , and luteal phase whereas the uterine cycle is divided into menstruation , proliferative phase , and secretory phase .	The stages of the cycle are defined as the Follicular stage , Ovulation and the Luteal ( or premenstrual ) stage .
And `` Activist 's Guide to the Yogyakarta Principles '' stresses that `` it is important to note that while `` sexual orientation '' has been declassified as a mental illness in many countries , `` gender identity '' or `` gender identiy disorder '' often remains in consideration . ''	And `` Activist 's Guide '' to them says that `` gender identity '' or `` gender identity disorder '' exists still in categories of mental illness , contrary to the `` sexual orientation '' removed from such categories .
He died in Los Angeles in 1988 of a heart attack , and was buried in Eternal Valley Memorial Park .	He died in Los Angeles in 1988 of a heart attack , and was buried in Eternal Valley Memorial Park .
Both the Doctor and the Master have been shown to be skilled hypnotists , although the Master 's capacity to dominate - even by stare and voice alone - has been shown to be far more pronounced .	Both the Doctor and the Master have been shown to be skilled hypnotists , although the Master 's capacity to dominate - even by stare and voice alone - has been shown to be far more pronounced .
The mountain achieved worldwide notoriety when it claimed the life of British cyclist Tom Simpson , who died here on July 13 , 1967 from heat exhaustion caused by a combination of factors , including dehydration ( caused by lack of fluid intake and diarrhea ) , amphetamines , and alcohol , although there is still speculation as to the exact cause of his death .	British cyclist Tom Simpson , who died here on July 13 , 1967 from a combination of amphetamines , alcohol and heat exhaustion .
For example , thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) causes growth and increased activity of another endocrine gland , the thyroid , which increases output of thyroid hormones .	This hormone is made by the pituitary gland .
In Ivory 's final year of college football , he had 39 rushes for 223 yards in five games before suffering a season-ending knee injury .	In Ivory 's final year of college football , he had 39 rushes for 223 yards in five games before hurting his knee , which ended his season .
Auditory sensation can occur if high‐intensity ultrasound is fed directly into the human skull and reaches the cochlea through bone conduction , without passing through the middle ear .	If ultrasound is fed directly into the skull bone and reaches the cochlea without passing through the middle ear , much higher frequencies ( up to about 200 kHz ) can be heard .
In humans , signs and symptoms of riboflavin deficiency ( ariboflavinosis ) include cracked and red lips , inflammation of the lining of mouth and tongue , mouth ulcers , cracks at the corners of the mouth ( angular cheilitis ) , and a sore throat .	Riboflavin deficiency can cause sores in the mouth ( mouth ulcers ) , cracked red lips , cracks at the corners of the mouth ( angular cheilitis ) , and a sore throat .
An AC ) 1.4 suggests riboflavin deficiency .	The syndrome shows that there may be riboflavin deficiency .
It is used in baby foods , breakfast cereals , pastas , sauces , processed cheese , fruit drinks , vitamin-enriched milk products , and some energy drinks .	To prevent riboflavin deficiency , people may add riboflavin to baby foods , breakfast cereals , pasta , sauces , fruit drinks , and foods such as cheese that are made from milk ( dairy products ) .
Although the effects of long-term subclinical riboflavin deficiency are unknown , in children this deficiency results in reduced growth .	Subclinical riboflavin deficiency also happens more easily in women taking the contraceptive pill .
Subclinical riboflavin deficiency has also been observed in women taking oral contraceptives , in the elderly , in people with eating disorders , and in disease states such as HIV , inflammatory bowel disease , diabetes and chronic heart disease .	It also may happen when people get old , or can not eat properly , or who have sicknesses such as AIDS , inflammatory bowel disease , diabetes and chronic heart disease .
As its name implies , neuroethology is a multidisciplinary field composed of neurobiology ( the study of the nervous system ) and ethology ( the study of behavior in natural conditions ) .	The word neuroethology combines ideas from two fields : neurobiology ( the study of the nervous system ) and ethology ( the study of behavior in nature ) .
Savant syndrome is a condition in which a person with a mental disability , such as an autism spectrum disorder , demonstrates profound and prodigious capacities or abilities far in excess of what would be considered normal .	The savant syndrome is a rare condition in which people with neurodevelopmental disorders , notably autism spectrum disorders , and\/or brain injuries , demonstrate profound and prodigious capacities and\/or abilities far in excess of what would be considered normal .
In spite of the name `` syndrome '' , it is not recognized as a mental disorder nor as part of mental disorder in medical manuals such as the ICD-10 or the DSM-V .	In spite of the name syndrome , it is not recognized as a mental disorder , or as a part of mental disorder .
Prodigious Savants were widely written about in India as a part of their spiritual lore and writings in the Bhagavad Gita The following are well-known people with savant syndrome , noted for their talent in their identified fields :	The following are well-known people with savant syndrome , noted for their talent in their identified fields :
The testes have two primary functions : to produce hormones and to produce sperm .	The testicles have two main jobs : to make hormones and sperm .
By stage 4 , the pubic hairs densely fill the `` pubic triangle . ''	Pubic hair is hair that grows in the pubic region , which is the part of the body where the penis is .
She died of pneumonia\/heart disease on 22 December 1943 at her home in Near Sawrey at age 77 , leaving almost all her property to the National Trust .	She died of heart disease and pneumonia in Near Sawrey , Lancashire on 22 December 1943 .
His son , Michael Fogolin , played for the Prince George Cougars in the WHL and died in his sleep on May 26 , 2004 , of a possible heart condition .	His son , Michael Fogolin , played for the Prince George Cougars in the WHL and died in his sleep on May 26 , 2004 of a possible heart condition .
Frost died on 31 August 2013 , aged 74 , on board the cruise ship MS Queen Elizabeth , on which he had been engaged as a speaker .	Frost died on 31 August 2013 while giving a speech on board the cruise ship MS Queen Elizabeth from a suspected heart attack .
Fresh meat from animals which make their own vitamin C ( which most animals do ) contains enough vitamin C to prevent scurvy , and even partly treat it .	Eating vitamin C prevents scurvy .
Their first child , Samuel Orchart , was born in May 1857 but died of croup in August of that year .	Their first child , Samuel Orchart , was born in May 1857 but he died of croup in August of that year .
In December of that year their son was taken ill with scarlet fever while on holiday in Brighton .	In December of that year their son became sick with scarlet fever while on holiday in Brighton .
The day after the birth of her fourth child , in January 1865 , Isabella contracted puerperal fever .	The day after the birth of her fourth child , in January 1865 , Isabella became sick with puerperal fever .
Her widower lived for another twelve years and died of tuberculosis in June 1877 at the age of 46 .	He died of tuberculosis in June 1877 at the age of 46 .
Walther Flemming , the founder of cytogenetics , named mitosis , and pronounced `` omne nucleus e nuclei '' ( which means the same as Strasburger 's dictum ) .	Walther Flemming , the founder of cytogenetics , named mitosis , and pronounced `` omne nucleus e nuclei '' ( which means the same as Strasburger 's dictum ) .
He said `` new cell nuclei can only arise from the division of other cell nuclei '' .	He said `` new cell nuclei can only arise from the division of other cell nuclei '' .
The terms , `` intrinsic incubation period '' and `` extrinsic incubation period '' are used in vector-borne diseases .	This lag time is called the incubation period .
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE ) , commonly known as mad cow disease , is a fatal neurodegenerative disease ( encephalopathy ) in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord .	Mad cow disease is the common name of Bovine spongiform encephalopathy .
BSE has a long incubation period , about 30 months to 8 years , usually affecting adult cattle at a peak age onset of four to five years , all breeds being equally susceptible .	It has a long incubation period , about 4 ~ 5 years .
Despite a temporary attempt at a comeback , Eastman died alone at the age of 49 in Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo of cardiac arrest .	He died alone in Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo , New York of heart problems .
Today , Drosera is usually used to treat ailments such as asthma , coughs , lung infections , and stomach ulcers .	Today they are still used to stop coughs , asthma , and lung infections .
They were all but destroyed by settlement , disease brought by European settlers , and clashes with the settlers .	They were all but destroyed by settlement , disease brought by European settlers , and clashes with the settlers .
Borderline personality disorder ( BPD ) ( called emotionally unstable personality disorder , emotional intensity disorder , borderline type in the ICD-10 ) is a cluster-B personality disorder the essential features of which are a pattern of marked impulsivity and instability of affects , interpersonal relationships and self image .	Borderline personality disorder ( BPD ) is a type of cluster B personality disorder , a long-term mental illness .
Many people with borderline personality disorder also have mood disorders , such as major depressive disorder or a bipolar disorder .	The vast majority of people who have BPD also have other mental health problems , such as : mood disorders , attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder , eating disorders , anxiety disorders ( especially post-traumatic stress disorder ) , and other personality disorders .
The disorder is recognized by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders .	Psychiatrists and other mental health professionals diagnose people with BPD using a book called the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM-IV-TR ) .
Therefore , by exposing an animal to an immunogen in a controlled way , its body can learn to protect itself : this is called active immunization .	By exposing an individual to an immunogen in a controlled way , the body will be able to protect itself from that infection later on in life .
Immunization , or immunisation , is the process by which an individual 's immune system becomes fortified against an agent ( known as the immunogen ) .	The material is known as an immunogen .
Green cardamom is broadly used in South Asia to treat infections in teeth and gums , to prevent and treat throat troubles , congestion of the lungs and pulmonary tuberculosis , inflammation of eyelids and also digestive disorders .	In South Asia , Green cardamom is often used to treat infections of the teeth and gums .
Others may be conditionally essential for certain ages or medical conditions .	Others may be essential for some ages or medical conditions .
Visual acuity ( VA ) is acuteness or clearness of vision , which is dependent on optical and neural factors , i.e. , ( i ) the sharpness of the retinal focus within the eye , ( ii ) the intactness and functioning of the retina , and ( iii ) the sensitivity of the interpretative faculty of the brain .	Visual acuity ( VA ) is acuteness or clearness of vision , especially form vision , which depends on the sharpness of the retinal focus within the eye , the sensitivity of the nervous elements , and the interpretative faculty of the brain .
Infectious mononucleosis ( IM ; also known as mono , glandular fever , Pfeiffer 's disease , Filatov 's disease , and sometimes colloquially as the kissing disease ( from its oral transmission ) is an infectious , widespread viral disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) , one type of herpes virus , against which over 90 % of adults are likely to have acquired immunity by the age of 40 .	Glandular Fever is a viral infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus .
On Tuesday , 31 May 2005 , Suárez 's son , Adolfo Suárez Illana , announced on Spanish television that his father was suffering from Alzheimer 's disease , and could no longer remember his period as Prime Minister of Spain .	On 31 May 2005 , Suárez 's son , Adolfo Suárez Illana , announced on Spanish television that his father was suffering from Alzheimer 's disease .
Lipids are a group of naturally occurring molecules that include fats , waxes , sterols , fat-soluble vitamins ( such as vitamins A , D , E , and K ) , monoglycerides , diglycerides , triglycerides , phospholipids , and others .	Lipids are a group of naturally occurring molecules that include fats , waxes , sterols , fat-soluble vitamins ( such as vitamins A , D , E , and K ) , glycerides , phospholipids , and others .
His style has been described as `` a dressed-down , more digestible version of Don Rickles with multiple personality disorder '' .	His style has been described as `` a dressed-down , more digestible version of Don Rickles with multiple personality disorder '' .
By his next appearance , in Spark of Insanity , he had been modified to have large , blue , crossed eyes .	By his next appearance , in Spark of Insanity , he had been modified to have large , blue , crossed eyes .
In the U.K. , psychiatrists Paolo Fusar-Poli , Oliver Howes , Lucia Valmaggia and Philip McGuire of the Institute of Psychiatry in London described in the British Journal of Psychiatry what they referred to as the `` Truman Syndrome '' : The authors suggest that the `` Truman explanation '' is a result of the patients ' search for meaning in their perception that the ordinary world has changed in some significant but inexplicable way .	In the U.K. , psychiatrists Paolo Fusar-Poli , Oliver Howes , Lucia Valmaggia and Philip McGuire of the Institute of Psychiatry in London described in the British Journal of Psychiatry what they referred to as the `` Truman Syndrome '' : The authors suggest that the `` Truman explanation '' is a result of the patients ' search for meaning in their perception that the ordinary world has changed in some significant but inexplicable way .
He suffered from poor health during the latter part of his life and died of a heart attack at the age of 48 , after recording approximately five thousand film songs for 583 released films .	He suffered from poor health during the latter part of his life and died of a heart attack at the age of 48 , after recording approximately five thousand movie songs for 583 released movies .
The Starving Time at Jamestown in the Colony of Virginia was a period of starvation during the winter of 1609-1610 in which all but 60 of 500 colonists died .	The Starving Time at Jamestown in the Colony of Virginia was a period of starvation during the winter of 1609-1610 .
He was married to Jane Hodge soon after his return to England in 1866 and fathered two sons , James Herbert Veitch ( 1868 - 1907 ) and John Gould Veitch , Jr. ( 1869 - 1914 ) before dying of tuberculosis at the age of 31 .	He married Jane Hodge soon after his return to England in 1866 and they had two sons , James Herbert Veitch , ( 1868 - 1907 ) and John Gould Veitch , Jr. ( 1869 - 1914 ) John Gould Veitch died of tuberculosis at the age of 31 .
Karyotypes describe the number of chromosomes , and what they look like under a light microscope .	It describes the number of chromosomes , and what they look like under a light microscope .
This is because while crows and jays die quickly from the virus , the American Robin survives the virus longer , hence spreading it to more mosquitoes , which then transmit the virus to humans and other species .	This allows the American Robin to spread the disease to more mosquitoes which then spread the disease to humans and other animals .
On June 24 , 2004 , members of a criminal group who were intent on forcing 6 Armenian women into prostitution were arrested .	On June 24 , 2004 , members of a criminal group who were intent on forcing 6 Armenian women into prostitution were arrested .
The United States has repeatedly described Armenia as a major source of illegal transport of women for sexual exploitation abroad .	The United States has repeatedly said Armenia is a major source of illegal transport of women for sexual exploitation .
Genes , Brain and Behavior ( also known as G2B ) is a peer-reviewed online-only scientific journal covering research in the fields of behavioral , neural , and psychiatric genetics .	Genes , Brain and Behavior ( also known as G2B ) is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering the fields of the genetics of behavior , the nervous system ( neurogenetics ) , and mental illness ( psychiatric genetics ) .
Psychiatry is a field of mental medicine aiming to study , prevent , and treat mental disorders in humans .	Psychiatry is a part of medicine that studies , diagnoses and treats mental illnesses and abnormal behaviors and conditions that cause problems and make life difficult for people .
Furthermore , the Italians made modern medical care available for the first time in Libya and improved sanitary conditions in the towns .	Furthermore , the Italians made modern medical care available for the first time in Libya and improved sanitary conditions in the towns .
At least 24 died and 135 were seriously injured in what became North Carolina 's worst tornado outbreak in 25 years ; tornadoes also struck South Carolina , Virginia , Maryland and Pennsylvania .	Tornadoes also struck South Carolina , Virginia , Maryland and Pennsylvania .
Collagen , in the form of elongated fibrils , is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendons , ligaments and skin , and is also abundant in corneas , cartilage , bones , blood vessels , the gut , and intervertebral discs .	Collagen , in the form of elongated fibrils , is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendon , ligament and skin , and is also abundant in cornea , cartilage , bone , blood vessels , the gut , and intervertebral discs .
Pectus excavatum ( a Latin term meaning hollowed chest ) is the most common congenital deformity of the anterior wall of the chest , in which several ribs and the sternum grow abnormally .	Pectus excavatum is a congenital medical condition where the ribs and sternum grow abnormally , producing a sunken appearance to the chest .
The Ravitch technique is an invasive surgery that was introduced in 1949 , and developed in the 1950s to treat the condition .	The Ravitch technique is from the 1950s .
Hank suffers from a fictional genetic disorder called Diminished Gluteal Syndrome ( DGS ) .	He suffers from Diminished Gluteal Syndrome ( DGS ) which is a fictional genetic disorder .
Anton LaVey died on October 29 , 1997 , in St. Mary 's Medical Center in San Francisco of pulmonary edema .	LaVey died on October 29 , 1997 .
Through most of his life , Chopin suffered from poor health ; he died in Paris in 1849 , probably of tuberculosis .	Chopin suffered from poor health most of his life and died of tuberculosis Paris in 1849 at age 39 .
For valid publication of a species , bacteria must be isolated , cultured , described , and deposited in a bacteriology culture collection .	For correct publication of a species , bacteria must be isolated , cultured , described , and deposited in a Bacteriology Culture Collection .
However , some bacteria require special culture conditions and can not be maintained in such collections .	However , some bacteria require special culture conditions and can not be maintained in Bacteriology Culture Collections .
The other component of the circulatory system , the lymphatic system , is not closed .	The circulatory system is the body system that brings blood to the body .
Preliminary limited studies of mate have shown that the mate xanthine cocktail is different from other plants containing caffeine , most significantly in its effects on muscle tissue , as opposed to those on the central nervous system , which are similar to those of other natural stimulants .	Studies of mate , though very limited , have shown preliminary evidence that the mate xanthine cocktail is different from other plants containing caffeine most significantly in its effects on muscle tissue , as opposed to those on the central nervous system , which are similar to those of other natural stimulants .
A study by the International Agency for Research on Cancer showed a limited correlation between oral cancer and the drinking of large quantities of `` hot mate '' .	On the other hand , a study by the International Agency for Research on Cancer showed a limited correlation between oral cancer and the drinking of hot mate ( no data were collected on drinkers of cold mate ) .
His main experimental finding was that there is only a distinct and clear vision at the line of sight , the optical line that ends at the fovea .	His main experimental finding was that there is only a distinct and clear vision at the line of sight , the optical line that ends at the fovea .
The major problem in visual perception is that what people see is not simply a translation of retinal stimuli ( i.e. , the image on the retina ) .	The major problem in visual perception is that what people see is not simply a translation of an image on the retina .
Visual perception is the ability to interpret the surrounding environment by processing information that is contained in visible light .	The ability to interpret visible light information reaching the eyes is called visual perception .
In women with cervicitis ( inflammation of the cervix ) or vaginitis ( inflammation of the vagina ) and in young men with UTI symptoms , a Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrheae infection may be the cause .	In women with cervicitis ( inflammation of the cervix ) or vaginitis ( inflammation of the vagina ) and in young men with UTI symptoms , a Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrheae infection may be the cause .
Prostatitis ( inflammation of the prostate ) may also be considered in the differential diagnosis .	Prostatitis ( inflammation of the prostate ) may also be considered in the differential diagnosis .
Vaginitis may also be due to a yeast infection .	Vaginitis may also be due to a yeast infection .
Pyelonephritis is treated more aggressively than a simple bladder infection using either a longer course of oral antibiotics or intravenous antibiotics .	Pyelonephritis ( kidney infection ) is treated more aggressively than a simple bladder infection using either a longer course of oral antibiotics or intravenous antibiotics .
In children UTIs are associated with vesicoureteral reflux ( an abnormal movement of urine from the bladder into ureters or kidneys ) and constipation .	In children , UTIs are linked to vesicoureteral reflux ( an abnormal movement of urine from the bladder into ureters or kidneys ) and constipation .
In young children , the only symptom of a urinary tract infection ( UTI ) may be a fever .	In young children , fever can be the only symptom of a urinary tract infection ( UTI ) .
In women , urinary tract infections are the most common form of bacterial infection with 10 % developing urinary tract infections yearly .	In women , urinary tract infections are the most common form of bacterial infection .
Uncomplicated infections can be diagnosed and treated based on symptoms alone .	Simple infections can be diagnosed and treated based on symptoms alone .
Some , such as the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends renal ultrasound and voiding cystourethrogram ( watching a person 's urethra and urinary bladder with real time x-rays while they urinate ) in all children less than two year old who have had a urinary tract infection .	Some medical groups , such as the American Academy of Pediatrics , recommend renal ultrasound and voiding cystourethrogram ( watching a person 's urethra and urinary bladder with real time X-rays while they urinate ) in all children who are younger than 2 years old and have had a urinary tract infection .
When it affects the lower urinary tract it is known as a simple cystitis ( a bladder infection ) and when it affects the upper urinary tract it is known as pyelonephritis ( a kidney infection ) .	In the lower urinary tract , it is known as a simple cystitis ( a bladder infection ) .
In post-menopausal women , sexual activity does not affect the risk of developing a UTI .	In post-menopausal women ( women who have stopped menstruating ) , sexual activity does not affect the risk of developing a UTI .
Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection .	Lower urinary tract infection is also known as a bladder infection .
A urinary tract infection may involve only the lower urinary tract , in which case it is known as a bladder infection .	A urinary tract infection in the lower urinary tract is known as a bladder infection .
In children when a urinary tract infection is associated with a fever , it is deemed to be an upper urinary tract infection .	When children also have a fever , the urinary tract infection is considered to be an upper urinary tract infection .
The evidence that preventative antibiotics decrease urinary tract infections in children is poor .	There is little evidence that using preventative antibiotics decreases urinary tract infections in children .
As a woman 's estrogen levels decrease with menopause , her risk of urinary tract infections increases due to the loss of protective vaginal flora .	As a woman 's estrogen ( a hormone ) levels decrease with menopause , the risk of urinary tract infections increases due to the loss of protective vaginal flora ( good bacterial that live in the vagina ) .
People experiencing an upper urinary tract infection , or pyelonephritis , may experience flank pain , fever , or nausea and vomiting in addition to the classic symptoms of a lower urinary tract infection .	People who have an upper urinary tract infection , or pyelonephritis ( a kidney infection ) , can have flank pain , fever ( a high temperature ) , or nausea and vomiting .
In young sexually active women , sexual activity is the cause of 75-90 % of bladder infections , with the risk of infection related to the frequency of sex .	Sexual intercourse is the cause of 75-90 % of bladder infections in young , sexually active women .
To make the diagnosis of a urinary tract infection in children , a positive urinary culture is required .	To diagnose a urinary tract infection in children , a positive urinary culture is required .
A urinary tract infection ( UTI ) ( also known as acute cystitis or bladder infection ) is an infection that affects part of the urinary tract .	A urinary tract infection ( UTI ) is an infection caused by bacteria in part of the urinary tract .
Urinary catheterization increases the risk for urinary tract infections .	Using a catheter increases the risk for urinary tract infections .
Interstitial cystitis ( chronic pain in the bladder ) may be considered for people who experience multiple episodes of UTI symptoms but urine cultures remain negative and not improved with antibiotics .	Interstitial cystitis ( chronic pain in the bladder ) can be the cause for people who have UTI symptoms many times , but whose urine cultures remain negative and do not improved with antibiotics .
In older children , new onset urinary incontinence ( loss of bladder control ) may occur .	Older children can have new urinary incontinence ( loss of bladder control ) .
As opposed to topical creams , the use of vaginal estrogen from pessaries has not been as useful as low dose antibiotics .	Unlike topical creams , the use of vaginal estrogen from pessaries ( medical devices put in the vagina is not as useful as low-dose antibiotics .
In post-menopausal women , topical vaginal estrogen has been found to reduce recurrence .	In post-menopausal women , using topical vaginal estrogen ( a hormone applied to the skin of the vaginal ) has been found to reduce getting a UTI .
In uncomplicated cases , urinary tract infections are easily treated with a short course of antibiotics , although resistance to many of the antibiotics used to treat this condition is increasing .	Antibiotics are used to treat simple cases of urinary tract infections .
In cases where infections are related to intercourse , taking antibiotics afterwards may be useful .	If infections are related to sexual intercourse , some women find it useful to taking antibiotics after sex .
Complications such as urinary obstruction from a kidney stone may be considered if symptoms do not improve following two or three days of treatment .	If symptoms do not improve following two or three days of treatment , it can mean that the urinary tract is blocked by a kidney stone .
Infants may feed poorly , vomit , sleep more , or show signs of jaundice .	Infants with UTI sometimes eat poorly , vomit , sleep more , or show signs of jaundice ( a yellow coloring of the skin ) .
Alternatively , it may involve the upper urinary tract , in which case it is known as pyelonephritis .	In the upper urinary tract , it is known as pyelonephritis ( a kidney infection ) .
If the urine contains significant bacteria but there are no symptoms , the condition is known as asymptomatic bacteriuria .	If the urine has significant bacteria , but there are no symptoms , the condition is known as asymtomatic bacteriuria .
Urinary tract infections occur more commonly in women than men , with half of women having at least one infection at some point in their lives .	Women get urinary tract infections more often than men .
The Infectious Diseases Society of America does not recommend fluoroquinolones as first treatment due to the concern of generating resistance to this class of medication .	The Infectious Diseases Society of America does not recommend fluoroquinolones as first treatment because of concerns that overuse will lead to resistance to this class of drugs , making these drugs less effective for more serious infections .
Other risk factors include diabetes , being uncircumcised , and having a large prostate .	Other risk factors include diabetes , being circumcised , and having a large prostate ( a gland around the urethra in males ) .
The term `` honeymoon cystitis '' has been applied to this phenomenon of frequent UTIs during early marriage .	With UTIs so frequent when women first get married , the term `` honeymoon cystitis '' is often used .
Women are more prone to UTIs than men because , in females , the urethra is much shorter and closer to the anus .	Women get more UTIs than men because women have a urethra that is much shorter and closer to the anus .
Complicated UTIs are more difficult to treat and usually requires more aggressive evaluation , treatment and follow-up .	A complicated UTI is more difficult to treat and usually needs more aggressive evaluation , treatment , and follow-up .
However recurrent UTIs are a rare cause of further kidney problems if there are no underlying abnormalities of the kidneys , resulting in less than a third of a percent ( 0.33 % ) of chronic kidney disease in adults .	Having frequent urinary tract infections as a child causes less than a third of a percent ( 0.33 % ) of chronic kidney disease in adults .
In those with frequent infections , low dose antibiotics may be taken as a preventative measure .	A person with frequent infections can take low-dose antibiotics to prevent future infections .
The main causal agent of both types is Escherichia coli , though other bacteria , viruses or fungi may rarely be the cause .	The main cause for both types is the bacteria Escherichia coli .
The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently ( or an urge to urinate ) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain .	The most common symptoms are burning with peeing and having to pee frequently ( or wanting to pee ) without vaginal discharge or significant pain .
She died in Toronto on May 14 , 1940 , aged 70 .	She died in Toronto May 14 , 1940 of a stroke .
Fearful of being trapped in Europe , Xerxes withdrew with much of his army to Asia ( losing most to starvation and disease ) , leaving Mardonius to attempt to complete the conquest of Greece .	Fearing to be trapped in Europe , Xerxes withdrew with much of his army to Asia , leaving Mardonius to complete the conquest of Greece .
A psychoactive drug , psychopharmaceutical , or psychotropic is a chemical substance that crosses the blood-brain barrier and acts primarily upon the central nervous system where it affects brain function , resulting in alterations in perception , mood , consciousness , cognition , and behavior .	A psychoactive drug , psychopharmaceutical , or psychotropic is a chemical substance that crosses the blood-brain barrier .
He died of bronchopneumonia brought on by AIDS on 24 November 1991 , only one day after publicly acknowledging that he had the disease .	One day after the news was broadcast , Mercury died of bronchopneumonia caused by AIDS on 24 November 1991 .
HCV is not spread through casual contact , such as hugging , kissing , or sharing eating or cooking utensils .	Hepatitis C does not spread through casual contact , such as hugging , kissing , or sharing eating or cooking utensils .
It is believed that ten million intravenous drug users are infected with hepatitis C ; China ( 1.6 million ) , the United States ( 1.5 million ) , and Russia ( 1.3 million ) have the highest absolute totals .	In twelve of the countries in the study , more than 80 % of all IV drug users had Hepatitis C. Across the world , as many as ten million IV drug users are thought to have Hepatitis C ; the highest totals are in China ( 1.6 million ) , the United States ( 1.5 million ) , and Russia ( 1.3 million ) .
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .	The hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) causes this disease .
Personal-care items such as razors , toothbrushes , and manicuring or pedicuring equipment can be contaminated with blood .	Because Hepatitis C is spread by blood-to-blood contact , personal-care tools which come into contact with blood - like razors , toothbrushes , and manicure or pedicure equipment or any other kind of blood to blood contact - can spread the disease if they are shared .
Some countries do not screen for hepatitis C due to the cost .	While Hepatitis C screening works very well , some countries still do not screen blood and organ donations for the disease because of the cost .
Whether hepatitis C can be transmitted through sexual activity is controversial .	Scientists do not know whether Hepatitis C can be transmitted ( or spread ) through sex .
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a liver transplant .	However , if a person 's Hepatitis C has progressed ( or gotten worse ) so much that the person has cirrhosis or liver cancer , the person might need a liver transplant ( they might need to have surgery where they are given another person 's liver , or part of another person 's liver ) .
There is no evidence that breast-feeding spreads HCV ; however , to be cautious , an infected mother is advised to avoid breastfeeding if her nipples are cracked and bleeding , or her viral loads are high .	However , doctors say that an infected mother should not breastfeed if her nipples are cracked and bleeding , or her viral loads ( the amount of the Hepatitis C virus in her blood ) are high .
While there is an association between high-risk sexual activity and hepatitis C , and multiple sexual partners are a risk factor for hepatitis C , there is no conclusive evidence that hepatitis C can be transmitted by sexual activity , since people who report transmission with sex as their only risk factor may actually have used drugs but denied it .	Hepatitis C is more likely in people who have high-risk sexual activity ( sexual actions which make them much more likely to get Hepatitis C ) .
Hepatitis C infection causes acute symptoms in 15 % of cases .	There is no vaccine that works to prevent people from getting Hepatitis C. Hepatitis C causes acute symptoms ( symptoms that begin quickly or last only a short time ) in just 15 % of people with the disease .
Of 77 countries reviewed , 25 ( including the United States ) were found to have prevalences of hepatitis C in the intravenous drug user population of between 60 % and 80 % .	One study that looked at 77 countries showed that in 25 of these countries ( including the United States ) , between 60 % and 80 % ( or 6 to 8 out of every 10 ) of all IV drug users had Hepatitis C. and China .
Chronic hepatitis C can be associated with fatigue and mild cognitive problems .	Most experience very few or no symptoms during the first decades of the infection , although chronic Hepatitis C can cause fatigue ( feeling tired ) .
Hospital equipment has also been documented as a method of transmission of hepatitis C , including reuse of needles and syringes ; multiple-use medication vials ; infusion bags ; and improperly sterilized surgical equipment , among others .	Hepatitis C can be spread through needles , syringes , and medication vials ( or containers ) that are re-used ; through infusion bags ( which are used to pump medications into a person 's body ; and through surgical equipment that is not sterile ( or clean and free of germs ) .
He was elected president in 1840 , and died of pneumonia in April 1841 , a month after taking office .	He was elected president in 1840 , and took the oath of office on March 4 , 1841 .
He attempted to repeat this success with an effort to build a Panama Canal at sea-level during the 1880s , but the project was devastated by epidemics of malaria and yellow fever in the area , as well as beset by financial problems , and the planned de Lesseps Panama Canal was never completed .	He also tried to build a Panama Canal during the 1880s , but malaria and yellow fever was so bad that he gave up and the Panama Canal Company went bankrupt .
Genetic counseling is the process by which patients or relatives at risk of an inherited disorder , are advised of the consequences and nature of the disorder , the probability of developing or transmitting it , and the options open to them in management and family planning .	Genetic counselling , or counseling , is the process by which clients are advised about genetic disorders .
President Wilson suffered a severe stroke in October 1919 .	In September 1919 , he suffered a stroke .
Non-penetrative sex or outercourse is sexual activity that usually does not include sexual penetration .	Non-penetrative sex is a form of sexual activity which does not involve penetration of the vagina , anus , or mouth , unlike the more common penetrative sex .
For example , a `` flu strain '' is a certain biological form of the influenza or `` flu '' virus .	For example , a `` flu strain '' is a certain biological form of the influenza or `` flu '' virus .
Some cell types arrest in the following cell cycle when centrosomes are absent .	Some cell types arrest in the following cell cycle when centrosomes are absent , but this is does n't happen always .
A Crafoord Prize is only awarded for polyarthritis when a special committee decides that substantial progress in the field has been made .	A Crafoord Prize is only awarded for arthritis when a committee decides that substantial progress in the field has been made .
Administered by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences , the prize `` is intended to promote international basic research in the disciplines : Astronomy and Mathematics , Geosciences , Biosciences , with particular emphasis on ecology , and Polyarthritis ( rheumatoid arthritis ) '' , the disease from which Holger severely suffered in his last years .	The prize is for `` international basic research in the disciplines Astronomy , Mathematics , Geosciences , and Biosciences , with particular emphasis on ecology , and rheumatoid arthritis '' ( the disease from which Holger severely suffered in his last years ) .
Evidence of acute rheumatic fever would exclude a PANS classification .	Proof of acute rheumatic fever would exclude a PANS classification .
Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome ( PANS ) is a neuropsychiatric syndrome still under research , leading to rapid onset Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) and\/or tics in children and adolescents .	Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome ( PANS ) is the name of a disease that normally begins in childhood .
Its stated mission is to protect the rights of people who have been labeled with psychiatric disorders .	It protects the rights of people who have been labeled with psychiatric disorders .
On January 11 , 1621 , as Bradford was helping to build houses , he was suddenly struck with great pain in his hipbone and he collapsed .	On January 11 , 1621 , as Bradford was helping to build houses when he was got a great pain in his hipbone and fell .
The Patuxet tribe , between 1616 and 1619 , had been wiped out by plagues resulting from contact with English fishermen-diseases to which the Patuxet had no immunity .	The Patuxet tribe of Indians , between 1616 and 1619 , had been wiped out by illness .
Henry 's obesity hastened his death at the age of 55 , which occurred on 28 January 1547 in the Palace of Whitehall , on what would have been his father 's 90th birthday .	He died at the age of 55 in 1547 , on the day which would have been his father 's King Henry VII 90th Birthday .
Another similar macrocycle unit is corrin , which complexes with cobalt when forming part of cobalamin molecules , constituting Vitamin B12 , which is intensely red .	Another similar macrocycle unit is corrin , which complexes with cobalt when forming part of cobalamin molecules , constituting Vitamin B12 , which is intensely red .
Hemoglobin transports oxygen to the cells of our bodies .	Hemoglobin transports oxygen to the cells of human bodies .
As a ligand , porphyrin forms numerous complexes with metallic ions like iron in hemoglobin that colors blood red .	As a ligand , porphyrin forms many complexes with metallic ions .
Those who live in the low-lying lands suffer from a mild malaria , while abroad they are subject to dysentery and pneumonia .	Those who live in the low-lying lands suffer from a mild malaria , while abroad they are subject to dysentery and pneumonia .
They dress wounds with butter and leaves , and for inflammation of the lungs or pleurisy , pierce a hole in the chest .	They dress wounds with butter and leaves , and for inflammation of the lungs or pleurisy , pierce a hole in the chest .
She had to check the muskrat traps in nearby marshes , even after contracting measles .	She had to check the muskrat traps in nearby marshes , even after contracting measles .
The injury caused disabling epileptic-type seizures , headaches , and powerful visionary and dream experiences , which occurred throughout her life .	This hurt her head very badly causing her disabling seizures , narcoleptic attacks , headaches , and powerful visionary and dream experiences , which occurred throughout her life .
Silver is used widely in mission-critical applications as electrical contacts , and is also used in photography ( because silver nitrate reverts to metal on exposure to light ) , agriculture , medicine , audiophile and scientific applications .	Silver is used widely in mission-critical applications as electrical contacts , and is also used in photography ( because silver nitrate reverts to metal on exposure to light ) , agriculture , medicine , audiophile and scientific applications .
When bacteriophages ( viruses that infect bacteria ) infect a bacterial cell , their normal mode of reproduction is to harness the replicational , transcriptional , and translation machinery of the host bacterial cell to make numerous virions , or complete viral particles , including the viral DNA or RNA and the protein coat .	When bacteriophages infect a bacterial cell , their normal mode of reproduction is to harness the replicational , transcriptional , and translation machinery of the host bacterial cell to make numerous complete viral particles , including the viral DNA or RNA and the protein coat .
It is said that Lilu disturbs and seduces women in their sleep , while Lilitu , a female demon , appears to men in their erotic dreams .	It is said that Lilu disturbs and seduces women in their sleep , while Lilitu , a female demon , appears to men in their erotic dreams .
Incubi are sometimes said to be able to conceive children .	Incubi are sometimes said to be able to conceive children .
Victims may have been experiencing waking dreams or sleep paralysis .	Victims may have been experiencing waking dreams or sleep paralysis .
During the last year of his life , suffering from prostate cancer and unable to paint with his right hand after a fall , in a final burst of energy he used his left hand to complete a dazzling series of about 150 small paintings before he died .	During the last year of his life , suffering from prostate cancer and unable to paint with his right hand after a fall , in a final burst of energy he used his left hand to complete a dazzling series of about 150 small paintings before he died .
The 1996 event was marred by tragedy when during practice , pace car driver Elmo Langley died of a heart attack in the Chevrolet Corvette Pace Car at the esses during an evaluation run .	The 1996 event was marred by tragedy when pace car driver Elmo Langley died of a heart attack during practice .
They had hoped that the desert climate would help him recuperate from tuberculosis , but Robertson died in 1914 .	They had hoped that the desert climate would help him with his tuberculosis , but Robertson died in 1914 .
Warren helped develop a convenient diagnostic test ( 14C-urea breath-test ) for detecting H. pylori in ulcer patients .	Warren helped develop an easy diagnostic test ( 14C-urea breath-test ) for finding H. pylori in ulcer patients .
At the University of Western Australia , with his colleague Barry J. Marshall , Warren proved that the bacterium is the cause of stomach ulcers .	At the University of Western Australia with Barry J. Marshall , Warren proved that the bacterium is the cause of stomach ulcers .
John Robin Warren AC ( born 11 June 1937 in Adelaide ) is an Australian pathologist , Nobel Laureate and researcher who is credited with the 1979 re-discovery of the bacterium Helicobacter pylori , together with Barry Marshall .	John Robin Warren AC ( born 11 June 1937 in Adelaide ) is an Australian pathologist , Nobel winner and researcher .
She filmed the lead dentist discussing production goals and stating that his clinic 's dentists perform many baby root canals per day .	The main dentist said that , in one time , they often did six or more baby root canals on a child .
Feuermann died all too prematurely in 1942 due to complications in a surgical operation for hemorrhoids , short of his fortieth birthday .	Feuermann died in 1942 of an infection after a small operation for hemorrhoids .
Alfred Adler , founder of the school of individual psychology , introduced the term compensation in relation to inferiority feelings .	Alfred Adler , founder of individual psychology , used the word compensation in relation inferiority feelings .
Compensation can cover up either real or imagined deficiencies and personal or physical inferiority .	Compensation can hide real or imagined problems and personal or physical inferiority .
He died of a heart attack on June 26 , 1964 at age 75 .	He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963 and died of a heart attack on June 26 , 1964 at age 75 .
In Ireland , the Great Famine ( Irish : an Gorta Mór ) was a period of mass starvation , disease and emigration between 1845 and 1852 .	The Great Famine or the Great Hunger ( Irish : An Gorta Mór or An Drochshaol ) is the name given to the famine in Ireland between 1845 and 1849 .
Ilene Woods died on July 1 , 2010 , from causes related to Alzheimer 's disease at a nursing home in Canoga Park .	Woods died on July 1 , 2010 from causes related to Alzheimer 's disease in Canoga Park , Los Angeles , California .
Sendak died on May 8 , 2012 , in Danbury , Connecticut , at Danbury Hospital , from complications of a stroke .	Sendak died on May 8 , 2012 in his home in Danbury , Connecticut from a stroke .
It is an extension of the perineum , and is located between the penis and anus .	It is made of skin and muscle and is found between the penis and anus .
On 11 March 1958 , Christiansen died from a heart attack when he was 66 years old , and his third son Godtfred Kirk Christiansen promptly took over the company .	Christiansen died on March 11 , 1958 from an heart attack , aged 66 .
It bears similarity to conditions such as encephalitis lethargica and neuroleptic malignant syndrome .	For example , catatonia can look like encephalitis lethargica ( a type of brain infection ) and neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( a serious problem that can happen when a person stops taking neuroleptic ( or antipsychotic ) medicines ) .
In the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association ( DSM-5 ) catatonia is not recognized as a separate disorder , but is associated with psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia ( catatonic type ) , bipolar disorder , post-traumatic stress disorder , depression and other mental disorders , as well as drug abuse or overdose ( or both ) .	It can be a symptom ( or problem caused by ) schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , post-traumatic stress disorder , depression , and other disorders .
It may also be seen in many medical disorders including infections ( such as encephalitis ) , autoimmune disorders , focal neurologic lesions ( including strokes ) , metabolic disturbances , alcohol withdrawal and abrupt or overly rapid benzodiazepine withdrawal .	Catatonia can also be caused by many different medical disorders , like infections ( such as encephalitis , a brain infection ) ; autoimmune diseases ( where the body 's own system of defenses attacks itself ) ; focal neurologic lesions ( wounds in certain parts of the brain , including strokes ) ; and metabolic problems .
It was named after John Flynn , founder of the Royal Flying Doctor Service .	It was named after John Flynn , founder of the Royal Flying Doctor Service .
The leaves and bark are used for controlling blood pressure and gingivitis .	The leaves and bark are used for controlling blood pressure and gingivitis .
However , they are much less toxic than their predecessors , the barbiturates , and death rarely results when a benzodiazepine is the only drug taken ; however , when combined with other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol and opiates , the potential for toxicity and fatal overdose increases .	When combined with other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol and opiates , the potential for toxicity increases .
In general , benzodiazepines are well-tolerated and are safe and effective drugs in the short term for a wide range of conditions .	In general taking benzodiazepines is safe and effective in the short term .
The anterior pituitary synthesizes and secretes the following important endocrine hormones .	The anterior pituitary synthesizes and secretes the following important endocrine hormones : The two ` Gonadotropins ' ; and ; Oxytocin is one of the few hormones to create a positive feedback loop .
The posterior pituitary ( or neurohypophysis ) is a lobe of the gland that is functionally connected to the hypothalamus by the median eminence via a small tube called the pituitary stalk ( also called the infundibular stalk or the infundibulum ) .	It is functionally linked to the hypothalamus by the pituitary stalk ( also called the ` infundibulum ' ) .
The release of pituitary hormones by both the anterior and posterior lobes is under the control of the hypothalamus , albeit in different ways .	While the pituitary gland is known as the ` master ' endocrine gland , both of the lobes are under the control of the hypothalamus .
The main story of the episode 's first act sees Bart get appendicitis from eating a jagged metal Krusty-O .	The main story of the episode 's first act sees Bart get appendicitis from eating a jagged metal Krusty-O .
He stated that `` you ca n't get '' appendicitis from eating a piece of metal , but the writers decided to do it anyway .	He stated that `` you ca n't get '' appendicitis from eating a piece of metal , but the writers decided to do it anyway .
Bart collapses on the medical room floor , and is taken to Springfield General Hospital where he undergoes surgery from Dr. Hibbert and Dr. Nick , as it emerges he has appendicitis .	He is then taken to Springfield General Hospital where he undergoes surgery from Dr. Hibbert and Dr. Nick .
He suffered from Parkinson 's Disease in his later years , and was eventually confined to a nursing home prior to his death in 1990 .	He suffered from Parkinson 's Disease in his later years , and was eventually confined to a nursing home prior to his death in 1990 .
During sexual arousal , the clitoris and the whole of the genitalia engorge and change color as the erectile tissues fill with blood ( vasocongestion ) , and the individual experiences vaginal contractions .	During sexual arousal , erectile tissue fills with blood .
Radcliffe is an asthma sufferer who has campaigned against the use of drugs in sport .	Radcliffe is an asthmatic sufferer who has voiced her opposition to the use of drugs in sport .
While recovering in the hospital from back surgery , Billington would later recount that Bret Hart showed up and stated that Vince McMahon had sent him to get Dynamite 's tag belt ; Billington refused .	When he was recovering in the hospital from back surgery , he recounted that Bret Hart had showed up and said that Vince McMahon had sent him to get Dynamite 's tag belt but Billington refused .
By Foley 's account , Billington manhandled him so badly in the ring that he could n't eat solid food for a time , and tore a ligament in Foley 's jaw with his trademark Hook Clothesline .	He said that Billington had manhandled him so badly in the ring that he could n't eat solid food for a time , and Billington had tore a ligament in Foley 's jaw with his trademark Hook Clothesline move .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the syncytiotrophoblast , a component of the fertilized egg , after conception .	Human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced during pregnancy .
Crohn 's disease is one type of inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) .	Therefore , Crohn 's disease is one of two inflammatory bowel diseases and one of many autoimmune diseases .
Many people with Crohn 's disease have symptoms for years prior to the diagnosis .	People with Crohn 's disease often have pain in the gut , diarrhea , vomiting , and weight loss .
The arthritis in Crohn 's disease can be divided into two types .	Crohn 's disease , Crohn disease , or Leśniowski-Crohn disease is an illness that causes the intestines , or other parts of the digestive tract ( the parts of the body food goes through ) , to become swollen , and sometimes develop ulcers ( holes ) .
Tobacco smokers are two times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers .	Men and women are both just as likely to get Crohn 's disease .
The minor glands include small mucus-secreting glands located throughout the palate , nasal and oral cavity .	The minor glands include small mucus-secreting glands located throughout the palate , nasal and oral cavity .
These types of strokes include lacunar and other ischemic strokes and minor hemorrhages .	These types of strokes include lacunar and other ischemic strokes and minor hemorrhages .
In the Cardiovascular Health Study , a population study conducted among 3,660 adults over the age of 65 , 31 % showed evidence of silent stroke in neuroimaging studies utilizing MRI .	In the Cardiovascular Health Study , a study used 3,660 adults over the age of 65 , 31 % showed evidence of silent stroke in neuroimaging studies using MRI .
Despite not causing identifiable symptoms a silent stroke still causes damage to the brain , and places the patient at increased risk for both transient ischemic attack and major stroke in the future .	A silent stroke still causes damage to the brain , and places the person at increased risk for both transient ischemic attack and major stroke in the future .
A silent stroke typically affects regions of the brain associated with various thought processes , mood regulation and cognitive functions and is a leading cause of vascular cognitive impairment and may also lead to a loss of urinary bladder control .	A silent stroke usually happens in parts of the brain that control different thought processes , mood regulation and cognitive functions and is a leading cause of vascular cognitive impairment and may also lead to a loss of urinary bladder control .
Silent strokes typically cause lesions which are detected via the use of neuroimaging such as MRI .	Silent strokes usually cause lesions which are found by the use of neuroimaging such as MRI .
A silent stroke differs from a transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) .	A silent stroke is different than a transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) .
They may also include leukoaraiosis ( changes in the white matter of the brain ) : the white matter is more susceptible to vascular blockage due to reduced amount of blood vessels as compared to the cerebral cortex .	They may also include leukoaraiosis ( changes in the white matter of the brain ) : the white matter is more susceptible to vascular blockage because it has less blood vessels than the cerebral cortex .
In a broad study in 1998 , more than 11 million people were estimated to have experienced a stroke in the United States .	In a big study in 1998 , more than 11 million people were thought to have had a stroke in the United States .
It is estimated that silent strokes are five times more common than symptomatic stroke .	It is thought that silent strokes are five times more common than strokes that have symptoms .
Women appear to be at increased risk for silent stroke , with hypertension and current cigarette smoking being amongst the predisposing factors .	Women appear to be at higher risk for silent stroke , with hypertension and current cigarette smoking being some of the reasons .
A TIA is a risk factor for having a major stroke and subsequent silent strokes in the future .	If a person has a TIA there is a bigger chance they may have a major stroke and silent strokes in the future .
In TIA symptoms of stroke are exhibited which may last from a few minutes to 24 hours before resolving .	In TIA the symptoms can be seen and may last from a few minutes to 24 hours before getting better .
There are various individual risk factors associated with having a silent stroke .	A person who has had a silent stroke usually does not know it .
The risk of silent stroke increases with age but may also affect younger adults .	There is more of chance of older people having a silent stroke but it may also happen to younger adults .
Planter David Weeks , who became chronically ill while Shadows-on-the-Teche was being built , died in August 1834 in New England while seeking medical attention .	David Weeks died in August 1834 .
A mitochondrion contains outer and inner membranes composed of phospholipid bilayers and proteins .	A mitochondrion contains outer and inner membranes .
Yankovic died on October 14 , 1998 in New Port Richey , Florida , from heart failure , at the age of 83 .	Yankovic died on October 14 , 1998 , in New Port Richey , Florida , from heart failure , at the age of 83 .
Fortunately , he was able to beat the gangrene before that became necessary , and was awarded a Purple Heart .	He was awarded a Purple Heart .
The basic structure of the speech was as follows : The speech caused such shock to the audience that , according to some reports , some of those present suffered heart attacks , and others later committed suicide .	The speech caused such shock to the audience that , according to some reports , some of those present suffered heart attacks , and others later committed suicide .
In the waters where he served , he saved such a large number of people with such effectiveness that the survival statistics increased dramatically .	In the waters where he served , he saved such large number of people with such effectiveness that the survival statistics increased dramatically .
Usually viral infection occurs when a virus enters the host , either : It is usually only after a virus enters a host that it can gain access to possible susceptible cells .	Usually viral infections occur when a virus enters the host : It is usually only after a virus enters a host that it can gain access to cells in order to invade .
For the virus to reproduce and thereby establish infection , it must enter cells of the host organism and use those cells ' materials .	In order for the virus to make copies and infect , it must enter cells of the host animal and use those cells ' materials .
Permissibility determines the outcome of the infection .	Permissibility determines how the infection will progress .
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic , and in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .	It was not awarded in 1919 , either , because of the influenza epidemic .
Hemoglobin , the main oxygen-carrying molecule in red blood cells , carries both oxygen and carbon dioxide .	Hemoglobin is in red blood cells .
In vertebrates and other hemoglobin-using creatures , arterial blood and capillary blood are bright red , as oxygen imparts a strong red color to the heme group .	The iron and oxygen gives hemoglobin its red color .
Queen Anne-Marie died of heart failure at her villa on 26 August 1728 , the day before her 59th birthday .	Queen Anne Marie died of heart failure at her villa on 26 August 1728 , the day before her 59th birthday .
Nonetheless , when he fell ill with smallpox , Anne Marie nursed him until his recovery .	Nonetheless , when he fell ill with smallpox , she nursed him until his recovery .
In humans and bonobos , the female undergoes relatively concealed ovulation so that male and female partners commonly do not know whether she is fertile at any given moment .	In both humans and bonobos , the female has a relatively concealed ovulation .
Condoms are widely recommended for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .	These diseases are called sexually-transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
While the term sexual intercourse , particularly the variant coitus , most commonly denotes penile-vaginal penetration and the possibility of creating offspring ( the fertilization process known as reproduction ) , it also commonly refers to penetrative oral sex and particularly penile-anal sex .	Two of them are oral sex and anal sex .
A week later Catherine died of puerperal fever , and she was buried on the grounds of Sudeley in the Chapel of St. Mary .	Catherine died after she had given birth to a daughter , Mary , at Sudeley Castle and was buried in its St. Mary 's Chapel .
Lavender also survived a heart attack in the summer of 2004 .	He had a heart attack in 2004 .
Official criteria for diagnosing personality disorders are listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , published by the American Psychiatric Association , and in the mental and behavioral disorders section of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems , published by the World Health Organization .	In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , a book about mental illness written by the American Psychiatric Association , there are ten personality disorders .
Vulvar carcinoma is separated from vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( VIN ) , a non-invasive lesion of the epithelium that can progress via carcinoma-in-situ to squamous cell cancer , and from Paget disease of the vulva .	Vulvar carcinoma is separated from vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( VIN ) , a non-invasive lesion of the epithelium that can progress via carcinoma-in-situ to squamous cell cancer , and from Paget disease of the vulva .
The cerebral cortex is the part of the brain that most strongly distinguishes mammals .	The surface of the cerebrum is the cerebral cortex , which all vertebrates have .
Each zinc finger is made up of anti-parallel beta sheets and an alpha helix , held together by a zinc ion and hydrophobic residues .	` Zinc finger ' is the name of many protein structures .
On Mother 's Day 1944 , while on leave during World War II , he discovered that his mother had committed suicide with sleeping pills .	On Mothers ' Day in 1944 , his mother committed suicide with sleeping pills .
In October 2009 , he told Wine Spectator magazine that he had been diagnosed with a heart condition .	In October 2009 , he told Wine Spectator magazine that he has been diagnosed with a heart condition .
Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions .	Obesity increases the chance of getting heart disease .
Some research shows that obese people are less likely to be hired for a job and are less likely to be promoted .	But obese people with heart disease are less likely to die in a 7 year period .
People are considered obese when their body mass index ( BMI ) , a measurement obtained by dividing a person 's weight by the square of the person 's height , exceeds 30 kg\/m2 .	To know if a person is overweight , the body mass index ( BMI ) is calculated , by dividing the person 's weight ( in kilograms ) , by their height ( in meters ) squared ( multiplied by itself ) .
Gesture processing takes place in areas of the brain such as Broca 's and Wernicke 's areas , which are used by speech and sign language .	In the neocortex , Broca 's and Wernicke 's areas , are used by speech and sign language .
This white salt is widely used in the processing of metal oxides and has received attention for the treatment of bipolar disorder .	Lithium carbonate is used in various medications for treating bipolar disorder .
It is known as a medicinal plant for its bark 's high quinine content - and has similar uses to Cinchona officinalis in the production of quinine , most famously used for treatment of malaria .	It has similar uses to Cinchona officinalis in making quinine , used for treatment of malaria .
He almost died of malnutrition .	He almost died of hunger .
The discovery of propranolol was hailed as the greatest breakthrough in the treatment of heart disease since the discovery of digitalis .	The discovery of propranolol was said to be the greatest discovery in the treatment of heart disease since the discovery of digitalis .
Black was also responsible for the development of cimetidine , a H2 receptor antagonist , a drug used in a similar manner to treat stomach ulcers .	It is a drug used to treat stomach ulcers .
He went to work for ICI Pharmaceuticals in 1958 and , while there , developed propranolol , a beta blocker used for the treatment of heart disease .	He went to work for ICI Pharmaceuticals in 1958 .
He remained in a coma for three months .	He remained in a coma for three months .
After being in a coma for three months , Argov regained consciousness , and was returned to Israel .	Argov recovered from his coma and was returned to Israel .
Symptoms of colorectal cancer typically include rectal bleeding and anemia which are sometimes associated with weight loss and changes in bowel habits .	Symptoms of colorectal cancer typically include rectal bleeding and anemia which are sometimes associated with weight loss and changes in bowel habits .
During the late 1990s , Lessing suffered a mini-stroke which stopped her from traveling during her later years .	During the late 1990s , Lessing suffered a stroke which stopped her from traveling during her later years and focused her mind on death .
Insomnia is most often thought of as both a medical sign and a symptom that can accompany several sleep , medical , and psychiatric disorders characterized by a persistent difficulty falling asleep and\/or staying asleep or sleep of poor quality .	Insomnia can mean a problem with getting to sleep or a problem with staying asleep .
The other , hidden sex organs are referred to as the secondary genitalia or internal genitalia .	The genitals include both organs that can be seen on the outside of the body ( the primary genitalia or external genitalia ) , as well as internal organs ( the secondary genitalia or internal genitalia ) .
Max Wertheimer ( April 15 , 1880 - October 12 , 1943 ) was an Austro-Hungarian-born psychologist who was one of the three founders of Gestalt psychology , along with Kurt Koffka and Wolfgang Köhler .	Max Wertheimer ( Prague , 15 April 1880 - New Rochelle , New York , 12 October 1943 ) was a psychologist who was one of the three founders of Gestalt psychology , with Kurt Koffka and Wolfgang Köhler .
The story was based on his real life best friend , Lisa Hill , who was struck by lightning and killed when they were both eight years old .	The story was based on his real life best friend , Lisa Hill .
Digesta is finally moved into the small intestine , where the digestion and absorption of nutrients occurs .	The digesta is finally moved into the small intestine , where nutrients are absorbed .
The major functions of the acquired immune system include : The cells of the acquired immune system are T and B lymphocytes ; lymphocytes are a subset of leukocyte .	The major functions of the adaptive immune system include :
Extensively Drug-Resistant TB ( XDR TB ) is TB that is also resistant to the second line of drugs .	Extensively drug-resistant TB is also resistant to three or more of the six classes of second-line drugs .
On October 12 , 2013 , Oscar Hijuelos collapsed of a heart attack while playing tennis in Manhattan and never regained consciousness .	Hijuelos collapsed due to a heart attack while playing tennis in Manhattan and never regained consciousness .
Kameny suffered from heart disease in his last years , but maintained a full schedule of public appearances , his last being a speech to a LGBT group in Washington DC on September 30 , 2011 .	Kameny died on October 11 , 2011 in Washington , D.C. from heart disease .
With a weight below 100 pounds ( 45 kg ) , Buckles developed beriberi , and led fellow captives in calisthenics to counter the effects of imprisonment .	He became malnourished , with a weight below 100 lb , and developed beriberi , yet led his fellow inmates in calisthenics .
The major complications include hemorrhage ( 1-2 % ) and infection ( 3-5 % ) .	The major complications include hemorrhage ( 1-2 % ) and infection ( 3-5 % ) .
DBS is approved in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Parkinson 's .	DBS was approved in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of Parkinson 's in 2002 .
The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) approved DBS as a treatment for essential tremor in 1997 , for Parkinson 's disease in 2002 , and dystonia in 2003 .	The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) approved DBS as a treatment for tremors in 1997 , for Parkinson 's disease in 2002 , Tourette syndrome in 1999 , and dystonia in 2003 .
DBS does not cure Parkinson 's , but it can help manage some of its symptoms and subsequently improve the patient 's quality of life .	DBS does not cure Parkinson 's , but it can help reduce symptoms and improve the patient 's life .
Deep brain stimulation has been used experimentally in treating adults with severe Tourette syndrome that does not respond to conventional treatment .	Deep brain stimulation is used to treat patients with severe Tourette syndrome when medication does not help the patient .
A systematic review of DBS for treatment-resistant depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder identified 23 cases-nine for OCD , seven for treatment-resistant depression , and one for both .	A study of DBS for major depressive disorder and Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) looked at 23 patients - nine for OCD , seven for MDD , and one for both .
DBS is also used in research studies to treat chronic pain and has been used to treat various affective disorders , including major depression ; neither of these applications of DBS have yet been FDA-approved .	DBS is used to treat many diseases .
It found that `` about half the patients did show dramatic improvement '' and that adverse events were `` generally trivial '' given the younger psychiatric patient population than with movements disorders .	It found that `` about half the patients did show dramatic improvement '' and that there were few side effects and complications .
Most cyanides are highly toxic .	In popular culture , cyanides are said to be highly toxic .
It seems likely that the real cause of Marie Louise 's death was appendicitis .	At the time , there were rumors that she had been poisoned but it seems likely that the real cause of Marie Louise 's death was appendicitis .
Marie Louise confided in the French ambassador , that After years of trying and of increasing homesickness of her happy years in France with her family , Marie Louise turned to food .	After years of trying and of increasing homesickness of her happy years in France with her family , Marie Louise turned to food .
A gluten-free diet is the only medically accepted treatment for celiac disease .	A gluten-free diet is the only medically accepted treatment for wheat allergy and coeliac disease ( in North America , it is usually spelled `` celiac disease '' ) .
Following on from this , in 1857 Louis Pasteur also designed vaccines against several diseases such as anthrax , fowl cholera and rabies as well as pasteurization for food preservation .	He offered method for food preservation ( pasteurization ) and vaccines against anthrax , fowl cholera and rabies .
There are four kinds of microorganisms that cause infectious disease : bacteria , fungi , parasites and viruses .	Medical microbiology , also known as '' ` clinical microbiology '' ' , is the study of microbes , such as bacteria , viruses , fungi and parasites , which cause a human illness and their role in the disease .
In contrast , many other researchers , including Robert Klitzman , S. Lindenbaum , R. Glasse , and kuru field researchers at the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research have documented reports that confirm the practice of cannibalism .	Many other researchers , including Robert Klitzman , S. Lindenbaum , R. Glasse , and researchers at the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research have made reports that say that the cannibalism still happened .
Gajdusek 's best-known work focused on kuru .	Gajdusek 's best-known work was on kuru .
This disease was rampant among the South Fore people of New Guinea in the 1950s and 1960s .	This disease was affecting many people among the South Fore people of New Guinea in the 1950s and 1960s .
Further research on the scrapie agent by Stanley Prusiner and others led to the identification of endogenous proteins called prions as the cause of these diseases .	Other research by Stanley Prusiner and others led to the finding of proteins called prions that caused these disease and other similar diseases .
He lived among the Fore , studied their language and culture , and performed autopsies on kuru victims .	He lived among the Fore and studied their language and culture .
Gajdusek connected the spread of the disease to the practice of funerary cannibalism by the South Fore .	Gajdusek felt there was a connect between the spread of the disease and the funerary cannibalism by the South Fore people .
Daniel Carleton Gajdusek ( pronounced GUY-dah-shek ; September 9 , 1923 - December 12 , 2008 ) was an American physician and medical researcher who was the co-recipient ( with Baruch S. Blumberg ) of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1976 for work on kuru , the first human prion disease demonstrated to be infectious .	Daniel Carleton Gajdusek ( September 9 , 1923 - December 12 , 2008 ) was an American physician and medical researcher .
He then proved this hypothesis by successfully transmitting the disease to primates and demonstrating that it had an unusually long incubation period of several years .	He proved this idea by infecting primates with the disease and showing that it had an very long incubation period of several years .
Feelings of embarrassment , shame , frustration , fear , anger , and guilt are frequent in people who stutter , and may actually increase tension and effort , leading to increased stuttering .	These people may feel embarrassment , shame , frustration , fear , anger , and guilt These feelings may increase stress and effort making the person stammer more .
As noted by the Nobel Prize committee , `` the great complexity of eukaryotic organisms is actually enabled by the fine interplay between tissue-specific substances , enhancers in the DNA and Mediator .	The Nobel Prize committee said , `` the great complexity of eukaryotic organisms is enabled by the fine interplay between tissue-specific substances , enhancers in the DNA and Mediator .
Other People : A Mystery Story ( 1981 ) , about a young woman coming out of a coma , was a transitional novel in that it was the first of Amis 's to show authorial intervention in the narrative voice , and highly artificed language in the heroine 's descriptions of everyday objects , which was said to be influenced by his contemporary Craig Raine 's `` Martian '' school of poetry .	Other People : A Mystery Story ( 1981 ) , about a young woman coming out of a coma .
Survivor : Pearl Islands winner Sandra Diaz-Twine also confirmed that she turned down an offer to join the show , saying that she was still recovering from parasites that she received while filming Pearl Islands .	Survivor : Pearl Islands winner Sandra Diaz-Twine also says that she said no , saying that she was still recovering from parasites that she got at Pearl Islands .
O'Toole died on 14 December 2013 at the Wellington Hospital in London , aged 81 , following a long illness .	He died of the disease in the Wellington Hospital in London , aged 81 .
Scene 12 : The Lady of the Pearls Aschenbach decides to warn Tadzio 's mother of the danger posed to them by the plague , but can not bring himself to do it .	Aschenbach decides to warn Tadzio 's mother of the danger of the illness , but he just can not do it .
He was director of MIT 's Center for Cancer Research ( now the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research ) from 1985 to 1991 ; head of the Biology department from 1991 to 1999 ; and director of the McGovern Institute for Brain Research from 2000 to 2004 .	He was director of MIT 's Center for Cancer Research ( now the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research ) from 1985 to 1991 ; head of the Biology department from 1991 to 1999 ; and director of the McGovern Institute for Brain Research from 2000 to 2004 .
After completing his Ph.D. , he worked at the California Institute of Technology until 1971 , where he studied plasmids and , later , gene expression in human cells at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory under James Dewey Watson .	After completing his PhD he worked at the California Institute of Technology until 1971 , where he studied plasmids and , later , gene expression in human cells at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory under James Watson .
A hearing dog is a type of assistance dog specifically selected and trained to assist people who are deaf or hard of hearing by alerting their handler to important sounds , such as doorbells , smoke alarms , ringing telephones , or alarm clocks .	A hearing dog is a special type of assistance dog that has been trained to help deaf people and people who have hearing problems .
Returning to work , Fine and the other two Stooges were working on a new TV series entitled Kook 's Tour in January 1970 when Larry suffered a debilitating stroke that paralyzed the left side of his body .	Fine suffered a stroke during the making of Kook 's Tour ( 1970 ) .
Severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) is a viral respiratory disease of zoonotic origin caused by the SARS coronavirus ( SARS-CoV ) .	The disease was caused by the SARS coronavirus ( SARS CoV ) , a new coronavirus .
He died of pneumonia in Belleville , only days short of his 94th birthday , and was buried in the Belleville Cemetery .	He was buried in the Belleville Cemetery .
Atahualpa became emperor when he defeated and executed his older half-brother Huáscar in a civil war sparked by the death of their father , Inca Huayna Capac , from an infectious disease ( possibly smallpox ) .	He became emperor after defeating his younger half-brother Huáscar in a civil war that followed the death of their father , Inca Huayna Capac , from an infectious disease ( maybe malaria or smallpox ) .
In 1913 , Watson viewed Ivan Pavlov 's conditioned reflex as primarily a physiological mechanism controlling glandular secretions .	The first paragraph of the article concisely described his position : In 1913 , Watson viewed Ivan Pavlov 's conditioned reflex as primarily a physiological mechanism controlling glandular secretions .
He became the second victim of the cholera epidemic of 1831 and was buried in an unmarked `` pauper 's '' grave .	He became the second victim of the cholera epidemic of 1831 and was buried in an unmarked `` pauper 's '' grave .
Alba has also had asthma since she was a child .	Alba has also said that she had obsessive-compulsive disorder when she was a child .
During childhood , she suffered from partially collapsed lungs twice , had pneumonia four to five times a year , as well as a ruptured appendix and a tonsillar cyst .	She had a collapsed lung twice , had pneumonia four or five times each year and had problems with her appendix and tonsils .
Sybil 's Cave , a cave with a natural spring , was opened in 1832 and visitors came to pay a penny for a glass of water from the cave which was said to have medicinal powers .	In 1832 , a cave called Sybil 's Cave opened and was popular .
Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder ( OCPD ) , also called anankastic personality disorder , is a personality disorder characterized by a pervasive pattern of preoccupation with orderliness , perfectionism , mental and interpersonal control and a need for power over one 's environment , at the expense of flexibility , openness , and efficiency .	Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder ( OCPD ) is a personality disorder .
Vespasian died of disease on June 23 , 79 .	Pliny the Elder died on 25 August 79 AD .
The Spanish forced much of the Lucayan population to Hispaniola for use as forced labor ; together with suffering from exposure to diseases to which they had no immunity , they suffered high fatalities .	The Spanish forced much of the Lucayan population to move to Hispaniola .
Plasmids can be found in all three major domains : Archaea , Bacteria , and Eukarya .	Plasmids can be found in all three major domains , Archaea , Bacteria and Eukarya .
Rotavirus is usually an easily managed disease of childhood , but worldwide more than 450,000 children under five years of age still die from rotavirus infection each year , most of whom live in developing countries , and almost two million more become severely ill .	More than 500,000 children die from rotavirus infection each year and almost two million more become severely ill .
People with bronchiectasis may have bad breath indicative of active infection .	People with bronchiectasis may have bad breath .
Patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency have been found to be particularly susceptible to bronchiectasis , for unknown reasons .	Patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency have also been found to be more likely to get bronchiectasis but it is not known why .
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens , chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .	Food slowly enters the small intestine from the stomach .
Except for one press appearance on May 23 , 2011 , Camping largely avoided press interviews after May 21 , particularly after he suffered a stroke in June 2011 .	Except for one press appearance on May 23 , 2011 , Camping largely avoided press interviews after May 21 , particularly after he suffered a stroke in June .
In October 2011 , he retired from active broadcasting following a stroke , but still maintained a role at Family Radio .	In 2011 he retired from active broadcasting following a stroke , but maintained a role at Family Radio until his death .
Camping predicted that Jesus Christ would return to Earth on May 21 , 2011 , whereupon the saved would be taken up to heaven in the rapture , and that there would follow five months of fire , brimstone and plagues on Earth , with millions of people dying each day , culminating on October 21 , 2011 , with the final destruction of the world .	His 2011 end times prediction was that on May 21 , 2011 Jesus Christ would return to Earth , the righteous would fly up to heaven , and that there would follow five months of fire , brimstone and plagues on Earth , with millions of people dying each day , culminating on October 21 , 2011 with the end of the world .
While plants are generally a good source of vitamin C , the amount in foods of plant origin depends on the precise variety of the plant , soil condition , climate where it grew , length of time since it was picked , storage conditions , and method of preparation .	The amount of vitamin C in foods of plant origin depends on the kind of plant , the kind of soil where it grew , how much rain and sun it got , the length of time since it was picked , and how it was stored since then .
Currently , there are targeted therapies for breast cancer , multiple myeloma , lymphoma , prostate cancer , melanoma and other cancers .	Some of the most common are breast cancer , brain cancer , leukemia ( a blood cancer ) , testicular cancer , mesothelioma , and lung cancer .
The field of study dealing with the endocrine system and its disorders is endocrinology , a branch of internal medicine .	The field of medicine that deals with disorders of endocrine glands is endocrinology .
In the 18th century the neighbouring marshes of the Val di Chiana , south of Arezzo , were drained and the region became less malarial .	In the 18th century the neighbouring marshes of the Val di Chiana , south of Arezzo , were drained and the region became less malarial .
By 1900 the population had reduced to 30 survivors , just 10 % of the original number , as influenza and measles took their toll .	By 1900 their population was just 30 , only 10 % of the original number , as influenza and measles took their toll .
Both her parents died , her mother died at age 54 from complications after strokes and her father died at age 52 several years later .	Both her parents died , her mother died at age 54 from complications after strokes and her father died at age 52 several years later .
Since the discovery of penicillin in 1928 , antibiotics have been used to fight bacterial diseases .	Since the discovery of penicillin in 1928 by Alexander Fleming , antibiotics have been used to fight bacterial diseases .
On June 12 , 1994 , Calloway suffered a severe stroke .	In May 1994 , Calloway suffered a stroke .
B.F. Skinner ( 1904-1990 ) is the person whose work is most often cited in connection with operant conditioning .	B.F. Skinner ( 1904-1990 ) worked out a more detailed analysis of operant conditioning .
Operant conditioning ( or instrumental conditioning ) is a type of learning in which an individual 's behavior is modified by its antecedents and consequences .	Operant conditioning is a form of learning .
Operant conditioning is distinguished from classical conditioning ( or respondent conditioning ) in that operant conditioning deals with the reinforcement and punishment to change behavior .	Operant conditioning deals with the voluntary modification of behavior ; classical conditioning with training a reflex .
It is important to realize that some terminology in operant conditioning is used in a way that is different to everyday use .	That consequence may be There are four different contexts in operant conditioning .
Reinforcement and punishment are the core tools of operant conditioning .	Principles of operant conditioning :
To implement his empirical approach , Skinner invented the operant conditioning chamber in which subjects such as pigeons and rats were isolated from extraneous stimuli and free to make one or two simple , repeatable responses .	Skinner invented the operant conditioning chamber which allowed him to measure rate of response as a key dependent variable .
He died during a plague outbreak in 1556 , in Karbalā ' , either of the plague itself or of cholera .	He died during a plague outbreak in 1556 , in Karbalā ' , either of the plague itself or of cholera .
This genus includes the West Nile virus , dengue virus , tick-borne encephalitis virus , yellow fever virus , and several other viruses which may cause encephalitis .	This genus includes the West Nile virus , Dengue fever virus , Tick-borne Encephalitis Virus , Yellow fever virus , and several other viruses which may cause encephalitis .
The exceptions to this are yellow fever and dengue viruses , which still require mosquito vectors , but are well-enough adapted to humans as to not necessarily depend upon animal hosts ( although both continue to have important animal transmission routes as well ) .	The exceptions to this are yellow fever and dengue viruses , which still require mosquito vectors , but are well-enough adapted to humans as to not necessarily depend upon animal hosts ( although both continue have important animal transmission routes as well ) .
Flaviviruses are named from the yellow fever virus , the type virus for the family ; the word `` flavus '' means `` yellow '' in Latin .	Flaviviruses are named from the yellow fever virus , a type virus for the Flaviviridae family ; flavus means yellow in Latin .
Human infections with these viruses are typically incidental , as humans are unable to replicate the virus to high enough titers to reinfect arthropods needed to continue the virus life cycle - man is a dead end host .	Human infections with these viruses are typically incidental , as humans are unable to replicate the virus to high enough titers to reinfect arthropods and thus continue the virus life cycle .
For example , early tests with yellow fever showed that the disease is not contagious .	For example , early tests with yellow fever showed that the disease is not a contagious disease .
The name `` yellow fever '' originated from its propensity to cause yellow jaundice in victims .	Yellow fever in turn was named because of its propensity to cause yellow jaundice in victims .
Some types of recessive gene disorders confer an advantage in certain environments when only one copy of the gene is present .	Some types of recessive gene disorders confer an advantage in certain environments when only one copy of the gene is present .
Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions .	Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions .
The same disease , such as some forms of cancer , may be caused by an inherited genetic condition in some people , by new mutations in other people , and mainly by environmental causes in still other people .	The same disease , such as some forms of cancer , may be caused by an inherited genetic condition in some people , by new mutations in other people , and by nongenetic causes in still other people .
A genetic disorder is an illness caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome , especially a condition that is present from birth ( congenital ) .	A genetic disorder is an illness caused by abnormalities in the genome .
Genetic disorders may or may not be heritable , i.e. , passed down from the parents ' genes .	They are heritable , and are passed down from the parents ' genes .
David W. Oaks ( born September 16 , 1955 in Chicago , Illinois ) is a civil rights activist and founder and former executive director of Eugene , Oregon-based MindFreedom International .	David W. Oaks is the founder and executive director of MindFreedom International , based in Eugene , Oregon .
At the death of the Prince of Piedmont in 1715 from smallpox Anne Marie died in 1728 after a series of heart attacks .	His devoted wife Anne Marie died in 1728 after a series of heart attacks .
The American Board of Allergy , Asthma , and Immunology is a conjoint board between internal medicine and pediatrics .	The American Board of Allergy , Asthma , and Immunology is a conjoint board between internal medicine and pediatrics .
The proximate cause for contagious yawning may lie with mirror neurons in the frontal cortex of certain vertebrates , which , upon being exposed to a stimulus from conspecific ( same species ) and occasionally interspecific organisms , activates the same regions in the brain .	The immediate cause for contagious yawning may be the mirror neurons in the frontal cortex of certain vertebrates , which , upon being exposed to a stimulus , activates the same regions in the brain .
Within three months of his marriage , Dürer left for Italy , alone , perhaps stimulated by an outbreak of plague in Nuremberg .	Within three months Dürer left for Italy .
Thorndike 's key observation was that learning was promoted by positive results , which was later refined and extended by B.F. Skinner 's operant conditioning .	Thorndike 's key observation was that learning was promoted by positive results , which was later refined and extended by B.F. Skinner 's operant conditioning .
Max Ferdinand Perutz , OM , CH , CBE , FRS ( 19 May 1914 - 6 February 2002 ) was an Austrian-born British molecular biologist , who shared the 1962 Nobel Prize for Chemistry with John Kendrew , for their studies of the structures of hemoglobin and globular proteins .	Max Ferdinand Perutz FRS OM CBE ( 19 May 1914 - 6 February 2002 ) was an Austrian-born British molecular biologist .
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage ( a higher fitness ) so long as malaria exists ; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time .	The heterozygote has a permanent advantage ( a higher fitness ) so long as malaria exists ; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time .
Such a balance is seen more simply in sickle-cell anemia , which is found mostly in tropical populations in Africa and India .	Such a balance is seen more simply in sickle-cell anemia , which is found mostly in tropical populations in Africa and India .
The sickle-cell variant survives in the population because the heterozygote is resistant to malaria and the malarial parasite kills a huge number of people each year .	The sickle-cell variant survives in the population because the heterozygote is resistant to malaria and the malarial parasite kills a huge number of people each year .
Because the heterozygote survives , so does the HgbS allele survive at a rate much higher than the mutation rate ( see and refs in Sickle-cell disease ) .	Because the heterozygote survives , so does the HgbS allele survive at a rate much higher than the mutation rate .
An individual homozygous for the recessive sickle hemoglobin , HgbS , has a short expectancy of life , whereas the life expectancy of the standard hemoglobin ( HgbA ) homozygote and also the heterozygote is normal ( though heterozygote individuals will suffer periodic problems ) .	The life expectancy of the standard hemoglobin ( HgbA ) homozygote and also the heterozygote is normal ( though heterozygote individuals will suffer periodic problems ) .
This is balancing selection or genetic polymorphism , balanced between fierce selection against homozygous sickle-cell sufferers , and selection against the standard HgbA homozygotes by malaria .	This is heterozygote advantage , a kind of balance between fierce selection against homozygous sickle-cell sufferers , and selection against the standard HgbA homozygotes by malaria .
The most typical psychological term for functions carried out by the prefrontal cortex area is executive function .	The most typical psychological term for functions carried out by the prefrontal cortex area is executive function .
Many authors have indicated an integral link between a person 's personality and the functions of the prefrontal cortex .	Many authors have indicated an integral link between a person 's personality and the functions of the prefrontal cortex .
The prefrontal cortex , also called PFC , refers to the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain , lying in front of the motor and premotor areas .	The prefrontal cortex ( PFC ) is the front part of the frontal lobes of the brain .
Lady Burdett-Coutts died of acute bronchitis at her home on Stratton Street , Piccadilly .	Lady Burdett-Coutts died of acute bronchitis at her house in Stratton Street , Piccadilly .
Trans fats may significantly increase the risk of coronary heart disease .	Trans fats are the most unhealthy fats to eat and can cause heart disease .
The authors added that measurement of BPA levels in serum and other body fluids suggests the possibilities that BPA intake is much higher than accounted for , and\/or that BPA can bioaccumulate in some conditions ( such as pregnancy ) .	The measurement of BPA levels in human serum and other body fluids suggests that either BPA intake is much higher than previously thought or that BPA can bioaccumulate in some conditions such as pregnancy , or both .
The authors concluded that BPA imitates the sex hormone 17B-estradiol , which leads to a rise in insulin and eventually resistance which can lead to type 2 diabetes and hypertension A panel convened by the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) of the U.S. National Institutes of Health determined that there was `` some concern '' about BPA 's effects on fetal and infant brain development and behavior .	A panel convened by the U.S. National Institutes of Health in 2007 determined that there was `` some concern '' about BPA 's effects on fetal and infant brain development and behavior .
The Chapel Hill Consensus Statement stated that average BPA levels in people were above those that cause harm to many animals in laboratory experiments .	In 2007 , 38 experts on bisphenol A wrote a consensus statement which said average levels in people are above those that cause harm to many animals in laboratory experiments .
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening , and both openings are protected by the labia .	The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening .
The human vagina is an elastic muscular canal that extends from the cervix to the vulva .	The vagina is an elastic , muscular tube starting from the cervix and ending at the vulva .
During birth , the elasticity of the vagina allows it to stretch to many times its normal diameter .	The vagina is very elastic and stretches to many times its normal diameter during birth .
The length is approximately 7.5 cm ( 2.5 to 3 in ) across the anterior wall ( front ) , and 9 cm ( 3.5 in ) long across the posterior wall ( rear ) , making the posterior fornix deeper than the anterior .	It is about 6 to 7.5 cm ( 2.5 to 3 in ) wide , and 9 cm ( 3.5 in ) long .
During childbirth , the vagina provides the channel to deliver the newborn from the uterus to its independent life outside the body of the mother .	During birth , the vagina opens to let the baby through from the uterus for independent life .
In humans , the vagina leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ) , but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .	The vagina is on the lower center of the vulva .
On February 27 , 2010 , an 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck the city of Concepción , killing more than 521 people and injuring thousands nationwide .	On February 27 , 2010 , an 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck the city of Concepción , killing more than 700 people and injuring thousands nationwide .
Most people who have auras have the same type of aura every time .	About 15 % of people who have a migraine will have the kind with an aura .
Chrysotile or white asbestos is the most commonly encountered form of asbestos , accounting for approximately 95 % of the asbestos in place in the United States and a similar proportion in other countries .	About 95 % of asbestos found in buildings is white asbestos .
Below his gaping anus , his dangling penis and scrotum are visible , as well as a golden ring on the ring finger of his left hand .	Below his gaping anus , his dangling penis and scrotum were visible , as well as a ring on the ring finger of his left hand .
It is thought that soon after arrival she contracted syphilis from the Elector , which explains why Anna Maria Luisa and Johann Wilhelm failed to produce any children .	As Johann Wilhelm had syphilis , the union with Anna Maria Luisa produced no children .
He was severely injured after falling from a truck , breaking his collarbone and sustaining a severe hit to the head .	He was severely injured after falling from a truck , breaking his collarbone and sustaining a severe hit to the head .
The ability to generate memory cells following a primary infection and the consequent rapid immune activation and response to succeeding infections by the same antigen is fundamental to the role T and B cells play in the adaptive immune response .	The adaptive immune response generates memory cells after a primary infection .
NK cells provide rapid responses to virally infected cells and respond to tumor formation , acting at around 3 days after infection .	NK cells also respond to respond to tumor formation .
Reviews of Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation have been published in the American Journal of Psychiatry , British Journal of Psychiatry , British Journal of Medical Psychology , Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease and some other journals .	Reviews of Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation have been published in the American Journal of Psychiatry , British Journal of Psychiatry , British Journal of Medical Psychology , Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease and some other journals .
He died at the Castle of Moncalieri having suffered an attack of apoplexy .	He died at the Castle of Moncalieri having suffered an attack of apoplexy .
At the time of her death in 1964 from a heart attack , she was still employed at the aforementioned university in Washington , D.C.	When she died in 1964 from a heart attack , she was still working at the university .
This idea is based on the fact that patients suffering from the Fragile X syndrome , caused by a deficiency of the FMR1 gene often show autistic symptoms .	The Fragile X syndrome is caused by a deficiency of the FMR1 gene .
A good mouse model for the Fragile X syndrome is available in the form of mice in which the Fmr1 gene ( the mouse homolog of the human FMR1 gene ) has been invalidated .	A good mouse model for the Fragile X syndrome is available because there are mice in which the Fmr1 gene has been changed so that it does not work any more .
When mice are exposed to unpredictable chronic mild stress ( UCMS ) , they start exhibiting symptoms reminiscent of major depressive disorder in humans .	Mice that suffer unpredictable chronic mild stress ( UCMS ) show symptoms that look like depression in humans .
However , the results were strain - and sex-specific and there did not appear to be a clear-cut correlation between the different changes , so that they finally concluded that although their data do not disprove the idea that deficits in hippocampal neurogenesis solely underlie the behavioral impairments observed in human psychiatric disorders such as depression , they do not provide support for this hypothesis either .	They concluded that their data do not support the idea that deficits in hippocampal neurogenesis alone are the cause of depression .
As expected , when mice from a strain with scant IIPMF projections were rendered hyperthyroid , they showed enlarged IIPMF and improved learning ability on the radial maze .	When mice from a strain with small IIPMF projections zere treated in this way , they could learn better in the radial maze .
Rachel 's second daughter , Lucy , underwent fetal surgery for spina bifida and was later diagnosed with cerebral palsy .	Rachel 's second daughter , Lucy , had fetal surgery ( surgery before she was born ) for spina bifida and was later diagnosed with cerebral palsy .
Doctors worried that , due to her cerebral palsy , Lucy would never be able to speak or use sign language to communicate with her deaf sister , but after production of the first volume , Lucy began to sign , and later , to speak .	Doctors worried that , because of her cerebral palsy , Lucy would never be able to speak or use sign language to communicate with her deaf sister , but after the first volume was made , Lucy started to sign , and later , to speak .
Lucy was born 8 weeks premature , with spina bifida and cerebral palsy .	Lucy was born 8 weeks premature , with spina bifida ( this means there is a hole in your back when you are born and your spinal cord is sticking out ) and cerebral palsy ( your brain has trouble controlling your muscles ) .
This arrangement of Eukaryota ( also called `` Eukarya '' ) , Bacteria , and Archaea is called the three-domain system , replacing the traditional two-empire system .	This arrangement of Eukaryota ( also called `` Eukarya '' ) , Bacteria , and Archaea is called the three-domain system , replacing the traditional two-empire system .
In 1977 , Carl Woese proposed dividing prokaryotes into the Bacteria and Archaea ( originally Eubacteria and Archaebacteria ) because of the major differences in the structure and genetics between the two groups of organisms .	In 1977 , Carl Woese proposed dividing prokaryotes into the Bacteria and Archaea ( originally Eubacteria and Archaebacteria ) because of the major differences in the structure and genetics between the two groups of organisms .
Well-known examples are former United States President Ronald Reagan and Irish writer Iris Murdoch , both of whom were the subjects of scientific articles examining how their cognitive capacities deteriorated with the disease .	Some of the famous people who have gotten Alzheimer 's disease are former United States President Ronald Reagan and Irish writer Iris Murdoch , both of whom were the subjects of scientific articles examining how their cognitive capacities got worse with the disease .
Plaques are made up of small peptides , 39-43 amino acids in length , called beta-amyloid ( Aβ ) .	Beta-amyloid Beta-amyloid ( Aβ ) ( also called ` amyloid beta ' ) plaques start with a protein called amyloid precursor protein ( APP ) .
Alzheimer 's disease ( AD ) , also known in medical literature as Alzheimer disease , is the most common form of dementia .	Alzheimer 's Disease is the most common form of senile dementia accounting for up to 70 % of cases .
The nervous system consists of a ventral nerve cord , with one ganglion in each segment , and an anterior nerve ring surrounding the pharynx .	It consists of a ventral nerve cord , with one ganglion in each segment , and an anterior nerve ring surrounding the pharynx .
The short-beaked echidna has the largest prefrontal cortex relative to body size of any mammal , taking up 50 % of the volume in comparison to 29 % for humans .	The Short-beaked Echidna has the largest prefrontal cortex with respect to body size of any mammal .
Guide dogs are assistance dogs trained to lead blind and visually impaired people around obstacles .	Guide dogs are dogs trained to help blind people live on their own .
In this same year the National Institute of Mental Health was also created which provided support for the training hospital employees and research into the conditions which afflicted the patients .	The National Institute of Mental Health was created the same year .
Chapter five covers some 300 mental and behavioral disorders .	Chapter 5 of the ICD-10 covers over 300 mental and behavioral disorders which are divided into the following categories : The Online ICD-10 can be found in its entirety here Psychoanalysis is a form of therapy based on Psychoanalytic theory .
Psychopathology is a similar term to abnormal psychology but has more of an implication of an underlying pathology ( disease process ) , and as such is a term more commonly used in the medical specialty known as psychiatry .	Abnormal psychology is a part of psychology .
These early asylums were often in miserable conditions .	Although known as hospitals , there are many in-patient hospitals .
90 active medical brigades were sent to the region to reduce the risk of infections amongst the affected population .	90 active medical brigades were sent to the region to reduce the risk of infections to the affected people living in the destroyed area .
This response is recognized as the first stage of a general adaptation syndrome that regulates stress responses among vertebrates and other organisms .	This response is recognized as the first stage of a general adaptation that regulates stress responses among vertebrates and other organisms .
It was the first time since 1919 when a Spanish flu pandemic canceled the playoffs that the Stanley Cup was not awarded .	It was also the first time since 1919 that the Stanley Cup was not awarded .
There has been at least one case report of Red Bull overdose causing postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome in a young athlete .	There has been at least one case report of Red Bull overdose causing postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome in a young athlete .
It is believed , but was not proven , that she suffered from a rare heart condition called long QT Syndrome .	It was believed , but had not been proven , that she suffered from a rare heart condition called long QT Syndrome .
A February 3 , 2009 article in The Daily Telegraph called `` Red Bull ` may have triggered heart condition that killed student ' '' reported the death of a 21-year-old woman who died after drinking four cans of Red Bull as well as alcohol at `` social levels '' .	A February 3 , 2009 article in The Daily Telegraph called , `` Red Bull ` may have triggered heart condition that killed student ' '' reported on the death of a 21 year-old woman who died after drinking four cans of Red Bull as well as alcohol at `` social levels '' .
After visiting Thailand in 1982 Mateschitz had discovered that Krating Daeng helped cure his jet lag .	Mateschitz was the international marketing director for Blendax , a toothpaste company , when he visited Thailand in 1982 and discovered that Krating Daeng helped to cure his jet lag .
She was on medication for epilepsy and had an abnormally large heart .	She was on medication for epilepsy .
As is the case with other caffeinated beverages , Red Bull drinkers may experience adverse effects as a result of overuse caffeine intoxication .	Red Bull drinkers may experience adverse effects as a result of caffeine .
People suffering from psychosis are described as psychotic .	People who suffer from psychosis are said to be psychotic .
Approximately three percent of people who are suffering from alcoholism experience psychosis during acute intoxication or withdrawal .	About 1 percent of people suffer from psychosis during their lives .
People with psychosis may have one or more of the following : hallucinations , delusions , catatonia , or a thought disorder , as described below .	People with psychosis may have hallucinations , which means they can experience things that are not really there .
Risk factors include : poverty , malnutrition , deforestation and urbanization .	Risk factors include poverty , malnutrition , deforestation and urbanization .
About 200 million people in Asia , Africa , South and Central America and southern Europe live in areas where the disease is common .	About 200 million people in Asia , Africa , South and Central America and southern Europe live in areas where the disease is common .
The treatment needed is determined by where the disease is acquired , the species of Leishmania and the type of infection .	The treatment needed is determined by where the disease is acquired , the species of Leishmania and the type of infection .
Amastigotes multiply in infected cells and affect different tissues , depending in part on which Leishmania species is involved ( 4 ) .	Amastigotes multiply in infected cells and affect different tissues , depending in part on which Leishmania species is involved ( 4 ) .
Some possible medications used for visceral disease include : liposomal amphotericin B , a combination of pentavalent antimonials and paromomycin , and miltefosine .	Medications used for the visceral form include : liposomal amphotericin B , a combination of pentavalent antimonials and paromomycin , and miltefosine .
Leishmaniasis can be partly prevented by sleeping under nets treated with insecticide .	Leishmaniasis can be partly prevented by sleeping under nets treated with insecticide .
Infections in humans are caused by more than 20 species of Leishmania .	The disease has three forms : Leishmaniasis in humans is caused by more than 20 species of Leishmania .
Which can transmit the infection Leishmania .	These can transmit the infection Leishmania .
Leishmaniasis is transmitted by the bite of infected female phlebotomine sandflies .	Leishmaniasis is transmitted by the bite of infected female sandflies .
The World Health Organization has obtained discounts on some medications to treat the disease .	The World Health Organization has gotten discounts on some medications to treat the disease .
The genomes of three Leishmania species ( L. major , L. infantum , and L. braziliensis ) have been sequenced and this has provided much information about the biology of the parasite .	The genomes of three Leishmania species have been sequenced and this has provided much information about the biology of the parasite .
For example , in Leishmania , protein-coding genes are understood to be organized as large polycistronic units in a head-to-head or tail-to-tail manner ; RNA polymerase II transcribes long polycistronic messages in the absence of defined RNA pol II promoters , and Leishmania has unique features with respect to the regulation of gene expression in response to changes in the environment .	Leishmania has unique features with respect to the regulation of gene expression in response to changes in the environment .
Other measures include : spraying insecticides to kill sandflies and treating people with the disease early to prevent further spread .	Another way is using insecticides to kill sandflies .
Leishmaniasis \/ ˌliːʃməˈnaɪəsɪs \/ or leishmaniosis ( \/ liːʃˌmeɪnɪˈoʊsɪs \/ or \/ liːʃˌmænɪˈoʊsɪs \/ ) is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania and spread by the bite of certain types of sandflies .	Leishmaniasis or leishmaniosis is a disease caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania .
Additionally visceral disease can be diagnosed via blood tests .	The visceral form can be diagnosed with a blood test .
She died of Bright 's disease on August 6 , 1914 .	She had Bright 's disease .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot Frank , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in March 1945 .	Anne and her sister , Margot , were later taken to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp .
Nieves has a disability : he has partial vision .	Nieves has a disability : he has only some eyesight .
A few months prior to the London Paralympics , he had problems with his tendons .	A few months before the London Paralympics , he had problems with his tendons .
Gene targeting can be permanent or conditional .	Gene targeting can be permanent or conditional .
After cells with the correct insertion have been selected , they can be used to contribute to a mouse 's tissue via embryo injection .	The treated cells can be added a mouse 's tissue by embryo injection .
Syphilis can not be contracted through toilet seats , daily activities , hot tubs , or sharing eating utensils or clothing .	Syphilis can not be spread through toilet seats , daily activities , hot tubs , or sharing eating utensils ( like forks or spoons ) or clothing .
Many people who present with secondary syphilis ( 40-85 % of women , 20-65 % of men ) do not report previously having had the classic chancre of primary syphilis .	Many people who have secondary syphilis ( 40-85 % of women , 20-65 % of men ) do not report having had the classic chancre during the primary stage of syphilis .
Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum .	Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by a bacterium , Treponema pallidum .
While secondary disease is known for the many different ways it can manifest , symptoms most commonly involve the skin , mucous membranes , and lymph nodes .	Secondary syphilis can appear in many different ways , but symptoms usually involve the skin , mucous membranes ( like the nose , throat , genitals , or anus ) , and lymph nodes .
People with tertiary syphilis are not infectious .	People with tertiary syphilis are not infectious ( they can not infect other people with syphilis at this stage ) .
There may be a symmetrical , reddish-pink , non-itchy rash on the trunk and extremities , including the palms and soles .	Sometimes , there is a reddish-pink , non-itchy rash on the chest , back and extremities ( hands and feet ) , including the palms and soles .
Without treatment , a third of infected people develop tertiary disease .	Without treatment , one-third of people who are infected with syphilis ( one in every three people with syphilis ) get tertiary disease .
If allergic , as in the case of early disease , doxycycline or tetracycline may be used , albeit for a longer duration .	If a person is allergic to penicillin , other antibiotics like ceftriaxone , doxycycline , or tetracycline can be used , but they have to be given over longer periods of time .
Early latent syphilis may have a relapse of symptoms .	In the early latent syphilis stage , a person can have a relapse of symptoms , meaning that his symptoms can come back after having gotten better .
Other late presentations may be treated with once-weekly intramuscular penicillin G for three weeks .	Sometimes , late syphilis can also be treated with intramuscular penicillin G ( given as a shot into the muscle ) , but the medication has to be given once a week for three weeks .
The first-choice treatment for uncomplicated syphilis remains a single dose of intramuscular penicillin G or a single dose of oral azithromycin .	Usually , the first treatment that is used is either a single dose of penicillin G , given intramuscularly ( given with a needle as a shot into the muscle ) , or a single dose of oral azithromycin .
Most ( 60 % ) of new cases in the United States occur in men who have sex with men .	Most new cases of syphilis in the United States happen in men who have sex with men ( who , specifically , get 60 % of new cases , or 6 out of every 10 ) .
Primary syphilis is typically acquired by direct sexual contact with the infectious lesions of another person .	People usually get primary syphilis by having direct sexual contact with infectious lesions - wounds caused by syphilis - on the genitals of a person who already has syphilis .
Also , there may be Argyll Robertson pupils , which are bilateral small pupils that constrict when the person focuses on near objects , but do not constrict when exposed to bright light .	Late neurosyphilis can also cause Argyll Robertson pupils , which causes a person 's pupils ( the black circles in the middle of their eyes ) to be smaller than usual ; the pupils also constrict ( or get smaller ) when the person focuses their eyes on objects that are close by , but they do not constrict after seeing bright lights , like normal pupils do .
Approximately 30 to 60 % of those exposed to primary or secondary syphilis will get the disease .	However , not everybody who is exposed to primary or secondary syphilis will get the disease .
Neurosyphilis refers to an infection involving the central nervous system .	Neurosyphilis is an infection that involves the central nervous system ( the brain and spinal cord ) .
Syphilis is transmitted primarily by sexual contact or during pregnancy from a mother to her fetus ; the spirochaete is able to pass through intact mucous membranes or compromised skin .	Syphilis is transmitted ( or spread ) mostly by sexual contact or during pregnancy from a mother to her fetus .
Late latent syphilis is asymptomatic , and not as contagious as early latent syphilis .	Late latent syphilis does not have any specific symptoms , and it is not as contagious ( meaning that it does not spread as easily ) as early latent syphilis .
The United Kingdom uses a cut-off of two years for early and late latent syphilis .	In the United Kingdom , latent syphilis is called early if it has been less than two years since the secondary stage , and it is called late if it has been more than two years .
The signs and symptoms of syphilis vary depending in which of the four stages it presents ( primary , secondary , latent , and tertiary ) .	In each stage , the signs and symptoms of syphilis are different .
Marulanda died of a heart attack on March 26 , 2008 .	In it , Santos said , that Colombian intelligence agents thought , that Manuel Marulanda had died on the 26th of March 2008 , either of natural causes , or through a heart attack .
He is first mentioned ( though not seen ) in Planet of the Spiders , when the Brigadier thinks the Third Doctor has gone into a coma .	He is first mentioned ( though not seen ) in Planet of the Spiders , when the Brigadier thinks the Third Doctor has gone into a coma .
During a 1975 benefit concert , he collapsed on stage from a heart attack and subsequently fell into a coma that persisted for nearly nine years until his death in 1984 , at the age of 49 .	During a 1975 benefit concert , he collapsed on-stage from a heart attack .
The cause of death was not reported initially , but it is mentioned that Baraka had a long struggle with diabetes .	Baraka had diabetes .
In 1796 , a Catholic priest insisted that pato players who died in such a way should be denied Christian burial .	In 1796 , a Catholic priest said that pato players who died this way should not get Christian burial .
Since then , several other high-resolution structures have been determined by electron crystallography , including the light-harvesting complex , the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor , and the bacterial flagellum .	Since then , several other high-resolution structures have been done by electron crystallography , including the light-harvesting complex , and the bacterial flagellum .
He died of a heart attack in 1967 .	His father , who was from the UK , died of a heart attack in 1967 .
Pauling was one of the founders of the fields of quantum chemistry and molecular biology .	Pauling was one the first scientists to work in the fields of quantum chemistry , molecular biology and orthomolecular medicine .
Widespread private concerns related to penis size have led to a number of folklore sayings and popular culture reflections related to penis size .	Widespread private concerns have led to a number of folklore sayings and popular culture reflections related to penis size .
The perception of having a large penis is often linked to higher self-esteem .	The perception of having a large penis is linked to higher self-esteem .
A study undertaken at Utrecht University found that the majority of homosexual men in the study regarded a large penis as ideal , and having one was linked to self-esteem .	At Utrecht University was found that the majority of homosexual men regarded a large penis as ideal , and having one was linked to self-esteem .
An adult penis with an erect length of less than 7 cm ( just under 3 inches ) , but otherwise formed normally , is referred to in medicine as a micropenis .	An adult penis with an erect length of less than 7 cm but otherwise formed normally is referred to as having the micropenis condition .
Males may quite easily underestimate the size of their own penis relative to that of others , and many men who believe that their penis is of inadequate size have average-sized penises .	Studies found that many men who believed that their penis was of inadequate size had average-sized penises .
Flaccid penis length is a poor estimate of erect length .	Flaccid length is not a reliable indication of erect length .
The most accurate measurement of the human penis comes from several measurements at different times since there is natural minor variability in size due to arousal level , time of day , room temperature , frequency of sexual activity , and reliability of measurement .	The size depends on arousal level , time of day , room temperature , frequency of sexual activity , and unreliability of the measurement methods .
In 1995 , at the age of nineteen , Perales was diagnosed with neuropathy and lost the use of her legs within three months .	In 1995 , at the age of nineteen , Perales was diagnosed with neuropathy and lost the use of her legs in three months .
Williams suggested that some genes responsible for increased fitness in the younger , fertile organism contribute to decreased fitness later in life .	A gene may increase fitness in the younger , fertile organism , yet contribute to decreased fitness later in life .
This is achieved by excluding high-carbohydrate foods such as starchy fruits and vegetables , bread , pasta , grains and sugar , while increasing the consumption of foods high in fat such as nuts , cream and butter .	High-carbohydrate foods are foods like fruits , bread , pasta , grains , cookies , and ice cream .
It consists of cutting or scraping away most of the connections to and from the prefrontal cortex , the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain .	The operation cut the connections from the pre-frontal cortex ( front part of the frontal lobes ) to the rest of the brain .
Yancey died of a stroke secondary to diabetes in Chicago on September 17 , 1951 .	Yancey died of a stroke in Chicago on September 17 , 1951 .
Like the ovaries to which they are homologous , testes are components of both the reproductive system and the endocrine system .	They are part of two of the body 's systems , the endocrine system which keeps the body working , and the reproductive system which makes new life .
His three brothers James ( Roger ) ( 1915-2000 ) , Clifford ( 1916-1994 ) , and Gerald Durning ( born 1926 ) , and his sister Frances ( born 1919 ) survived to adulthood , but five sisters lost their lives to scarlet fever and smallpox as children .	His three brothers James ( Roger ) ( 1915-2000 ) , Clifford ( 1916-1994 ) , and Gerald Durning ( born 1926 ) , and his sister Frances ( born 1919 ) survived to adulthood , but five sisters lost their lives to scarlet fever and smallpox as children .
As a child he battled rheumatic fever , hepatitis and poliomyelitis .	When Sutherland was a child , he had rheumatic fever , hepatitis and poliomyelitis .
Child development refers to the biological , psychological and emotional changes that occur in human beings between birth and the end of adolescence , as the individual progresses from dependency to increasing autonomy .	Child development refers to biological , psychological and emotional changes that happen in humans between birth and the end of adolescence , at which time the individual goes from dependence to independence .
After years of illness , Balanchine died on April 30 , 1983 , aged 79 , in Manhattan from Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease , which was diagnosed only after his death .	Balanchine died in 1983 of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease .
A disease or condition is not a pandemic merely because it is widespread or kills many people ; it must also be infectious .	According to the World Health Organization , a pandemic can start when three conditions have been met : A disease or condition is not a pandemic merely because it is widespread or kills many people ; it must also be infectious .
For instance , cancer is responsible for many deaths but is not considered a pandemic because the disease is not infectious or contagious .	For example cancer is responsible for many deaths but is not considered a pandemic because the disease is not infectious ( although certain causes of some types of cancer might be ) .
A pandemic ( from Greek πᾶν pan `` all '' and δῆμος demos `` people '' ) is an epidemic of infectious disease that has spread through human populations across a large region ; for instance multiple continents , or even worldwide .	A pandemic ( from Greek παν pan all + δήμος demos people ) is an epidemic ( an outbreak of an infectious disease ) that spreads across a large region ( for example a continent ) , or even worldwide .
Typically , Belarusians eat a light breakfast and two hearty meals , with dinner being the largest meal of the day .	A typical Belarusian eats a light breakfast and two hearty meals , with dinner being the largest meal of the day .
Wheat and rye breads are consumed in Belarus , but rye is more plentiful because conditions are too harsh for growing wheat .	Rye is more plentiful because conditions are too harsh for growing wheat .
An American Society of the Order of St. John was established in 1957 as a foundation to assist the order with charitable work , after 1961 focusing its efforts specifically on the St. John Ophthalmic Hospital in Jerusalem and some other organizations aiding the sick .	An American Society of the Order of St. John was established in 1957 as a foundation to assist the order with charitable work , after 1961 focusing its efforts specifically on the St. John Ophthalmic Hospital in Jerusalem and some other organizations aiding the sick .
Black Pepper ( or perhaps long pepper ) was believed to cure illness such as constipation , diarrhea , earache , gangrene , heart disease , hernia , hoarseness , indigestion , insect bites , insomnia , joint pain , liver problems , lung disease , oral abscesses , sunburn , tooth decay , and toothaches .	The 5th century Syriac Book of Medicines prescribes pepper ( or perhaps long pepper ) for illnesses such as constipation , diarrhea , earache , gangrene , heart disease , hernia , hoarseness , indigestion , insect bites , insomnia , joint pain , liver problems , lung disease , oral abscesses , sunburn , tooth decay , and toothaches .
Also , it is eliminated from the diet of patients having abdominal surgery and ulcers because of its irritating effect upon the intestines , being replaced by what is referred to as a bland diet .	It is therefore eliminated from the diet of patients having abdominal surgery and ulcers .
The oldest , Christian , died in a boating accident in 1934 , and another , Harald , died from childhood meningitis .	Their oldest died in a tragic boating accident and another died from childhood meningitis .
Pavlovian conditioning was a major theme in Aldous Huxley 's dystopian novel , Brave New World , and also to a large degree in Thomas Pynchon 's Gravity 's Rainbow .	Pavlovian conditioning was a major theme in Aldous Huxley 's dystopian novel , Brave New World , and also to a large degree in Thomas Pynchon 's Gravity 's Rainbow .
Pavlov 's research on conditional reflexes greatly influenced not only science , but also popular culture .	Pavlov 's research on conditional reflexes greatly influenced not only science , but also popular culture .
Pavlov investigated the gastric function of dogs , and later children , by externalizing a salivary gland so he could collect , measure , and analyze the saliva and what response it had to food under different conditions .	In the 1890s , Pavlov was investigating the gastric function of dogs by externalizing a salivary gland so he could collect , measure , and analyze the saliva and what response it had to food under different conditions .
As Pavlov 's work became known in the West , particularly through the writings of John B. Watson , the idea of `` conditioning '' as an automatic form of learning became a key concept in the developing specialism of comparative psychology , and the general approach to psychology that underlay it , behaviorism .	As Pavlov 's work became known in the West , particularly through the writings of John B. Watson , the idea of `` conditioning '' as an automatic form of learning became a key concept in the developing specialism of comparative psychology , and the general approach to psychology called behaviourism .
Littman tentatively attributed the popular imagery to Pavlov 's contemporaries Vladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev and John B. Watson , until Thomas found several references that unambiguously stated Pavlov did , indeed , use a bell .	Littman tentatively attributed the popular imagery to Pavlov 's contemporaries Vladimir Bekhterev and John B. Watson , until Thomas found several references that clearly said Pavlov did , indeed , use a bell .
It is less widely known that Pavlov 's experiments on the conditional reflex extended to children , some of whom underwent surgical procedures , similar to those performed on the dogs , for the collection of saliva .	It is less widely known that Pavlov 's experiments on the conditional reflex included children , some of whom apparently underwent surgical procedures , similar to the dogs , for the collection of saliva .
The concept for which Pavlov is famous is the `` conditioned reflex '' ( or in his own words the conditional reflex : the translation of условный рефлекс into English is debatable ) he developed jointly with his assistant Ivan Filippovitch Tolochinov in 1901 .	The concept for which Pavlov is famous is the `` conditioned reflex '' he developed with his assistant Ivan Tolochinov in 1901 .
Alongside Melanie Klein , she may be considered the founder of psychoanalytic child psychology : as her father put it , child analysis ` had received a powerful impetus through `` the work of Frau Melanie Klein and of my daughter , Anna Freud '' ' .	As her father put it , child analysis had received a powerful impetus through `` the work of Frau Melanie Klein and of my daughter , Anna Freud '' .
During the 1970s she was concerned with the problems of emotionally deprived and socially disadvantaged children , and she studied deviations and delays in development .	During the 1970s she was concerned with the problems of emotionally deprived and socially disadvantaged children .
Wernicke 's area , which spans the region between temporal and parietal lobes , plays a key role ( in tandem with Broca 's area in the frontal lobe ) in speech comprehension .	Wernicke 's area , which spans the region between temporal and parietal lobes , plays a key role ( with Broca 's area , which is in the frontal lobe ) .
The temporal lobe is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain .	The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is under the Sylvian fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain .
The left temporal lobe holds the primary auditory cortex , which is important for the processing of semantics in both speech and vision in humans .	It is also important for the processing of semantics ( meaning ) in both speech and vision .
McQueen died at age 84 on December 22 , 1995 at Augusta Regional Medical Center in Augusta , from burns sustained when a kerosene heater she attempted to light malfunctioned and burst into flames .	McQueen died at age 84 on December 22 , 1995 at Augusta Regional Medical Center in Augusta .
By May 1904 , Chekhov was terminally ill with tuberculosis .	By 1904 , Chekhov was very sick .
There is a visual cortex in each hemisphere of the brain .	The visual cortex is a part of the brain .
Research on the primary visual cortex can involve recording action potentials from electrodes within the brain of cats , ferrets , rats , mice , or monkeys , or through recording intrinsic optical signals from animals or EEG , MEG , or fMRI signals from human and monkey V1 .	Research on the primary visual cortex can involve recording action potentials from electrodes within the brain of cats , ferrets , rats , mice , or monkeys .
It is located in the occipital lobe , in the back of the brain .	Physically , the visual cortex is at the back of the brain in the occipital lobe .
The left hemisphere visual cortex receives signals from the right visual field and the right visual cortex from the left visual field .	The primary visual cortex is the best studied visual area in the brain .
The Red Crescent society has helped millions of Pakistanis overcome disease and disaster , by offering support services for Pakistanis , which include , food , clean water , and medical services .	The Red Crescent society has helped millions of Pakistanis overcome disease and disaster , by offering support services for Pakistanis , which include , food , clean water , and medical services .
The exact cause of sarcopenia is unknown , but it may be due to a combination of the gradual failure in the `` satellite cells '' which help to regenerate skeletal muscle fibers , and a decrease in sensitivity to or the availability of critical secreted growth factors which are necessary to maintain muscle mass and satellite cell survival .	It may be due to the gradual failure in the `` satellite cells '' which help to regenerate skeletal muscle fibers , and a decrease in sensitivity to or the availability of secreted growth factors which are necessary to maintain muscle mass and satellite cell survival .
Muscular atrophy increases the risks of falling in conditions such as IBM ( inclusion body myositis ) .	Muscular atrophy also increases the risks of falling among people with certain medical conditions , such as IBM ( inclusion body myositis ) .
Muscle atrophy results from a co-morbidity of several common diseases , including cancer , AIDS , congestive heart failure , COPD ( chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ) , renal failure , and severe burns ; patients who have `` cachexia '' in these disease settings have a poor prognosis .	Muscle atrophy can also happen to people with certain diseases or medical conditions , like cancer , AIDS , congestive heart failure , Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and renal failure ( where the kidneys do not work correctly ) .
Muscular atrophy affects a major number of elderly .	Many older people have muscular atrophy .
Lemkin died of a heart attack at the public relations office of Milton H. Blow in New York City in 1959 , at the age of 59 .	Lemkin died of a heart attack at the public relations office of Milton H. Blow in New York City in 1959 , at the age of 59 .
In the human male , the urethra is about 8 inches ( 20 cm ) long and opens at the end of the penis .	In men , the urethra is about 20 cm ( 8 in ) long and its opening to the outside of the body is at the end of the penis .
In anatomy , the urethra ( from Greek οὐρήθρα - ourethra ) is a tube that connects the urinary bladder to the genitals for the removal of fluids from the body .	The urethra is a tube that connects the bladder to the outside of the body .
The female urethra is about 4 cm in length .	The female urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina .
The external urethral sphincter is a striated muscle that allows voluntary control over urination .	People and animals control urination using the urethral sphincter .
After 6-12 h , severe hyperkalemia , also the result of muscle breakdown , can lead to cardiac arrest .	After six to twelve hours , severe hyperkalemia can lead to cardiac arrest .
After 3-8 h , myoglobin , as a result of muscle breakdown , may start to show up in the blood plasma , which can cause the urine to turn a dark reddish , brown , or black color , and eventually lead to acute renal failure .	It can cause the urine to turn a dark reddish , brown , or black in color , and eventually lead to kidney failure .
The event that spurred him into writing was the death by polio of 18-year-old Manon Gropius , the daughter of Alma Mahler ( once Gustav Mahler 's wife ) and Walter Gropius .	He had probably already started the concerto when he heard the sad news of the death of a girl called Manon Gropius , the daughter of Alma Mahler ( who had once been Gustav Mahler 's wife ) and Walter Gropius .
In humans , the pigmentation of the iris varies from light brown to black , depending on the concentration of melanin in the iris pigment epithelium ( located on the back of the iris ) , the melanin content within the iris stroma ( located at the front of the iris ) , and the cellular density of the stroma .	In humans , the pigment of the iris varies from light brown to black .
Eye color or eye color is a polygenic phenotypic character determined by two distinct factors : the pigmentation of the eye 's iris and the frequency-dependence of the scattering of light by the turbid medium in the stroma of the iris .	Eye color is a visible character caused by two factors : the pigmentation of the eye 's iris , and way light is scattered as it hits the top layer of the iris .
Hazel eyes are due to a combination of Rayleigh scattering and a moderate amount of melanin in the iris ' anterior border layer .	This depends on the amount of melanin in the iris .
Heterochromia of the eye ( heterochromia iridis or heterochromia iridum ; the common incorrect form `` heterochromia iridium '' is not correct Latin ) is of two kinds .	The terms Hetrochromia iridis ( = different color of the iris ) , Heterochromia iridum ( plural form ) and Heterochromia iridium ( a mistake in Latin grammar ) are variously used when it is the eye color which is specifically mentioned .
He is a co-founder of the biotech start-up companies Biogen and Myriad Genetics , and was the first chairman on their respective boards of directors .	He is a co-founder of the biotech start-up companies Biogen and Myriad Genetics .
He is also involved in charity work by helping to raise money to help find a cure for Cystic Fibrosis through hosting Cystic Fibrosis walks and various other charities .	He also helps to raise money to help find a cure for cystic fibrosis through hosting cystic fibrosis walks .
After Jerilderie , Hart went into hiding with the gang and , for most of 1879 , the gang remained shadowy and elusive figures although Hart did appear at a St. Kilda doctor 's surgery to be treated for a foot condition .	After Jerilderie , Hart went into hiding with the gang for most of 1879 , although Hart did go to a St. Kilda doctor to be treated for a foot problem .
A patient who has such an illness may be referred to as a terminal patient , terminally ill or simply terminal .	Someone who has a terminal illness may be described as a terminal patient or as being terminally ill .
Palliative care is normally offered to terminally ill patients , regardless of their overall disease management style , if it seems likely to help manage symptoms such as pain and improve quality of life .	Very often , terminally ill patients are given palliative care to give them a better quality of life .
Terminal illness is a medical term commonly used to refer to a disease that will result in the death of the patient regardless of any treatment intervention .	Terminal illness is a term used to describe an illness which can not be cured and will almost definitely end in the death of the patient .
Avian influenza - known informally as avian flu or bird flu - refers to `` influenza caused by viruses adapted to birds . ''	Bird flu ( also called avian influenza , avian flu , bird influenza , or grippe of the birds ) , is an illness caused by a virus .
Later outbreaks of bubonic plague in Italy include the city of Florence in 1630-33 and the areas surrounding Naples , Rome and Genoa in 1656-57 .	Later outbreaks of bubonic plague in Italy include the city of Florence in 1630-1633 and the areas surrounding Naples , Rome and Genoa in 1656-1657 .
The papal city of Bologna lost an estimated 15,000 citizens to the plague , with neighboring smaller cities of Modena and Parma also being heavily affected .	The papal city of Bologna lost an estimated 15,000 citizens to the plague , with neighboring smaller cities of Modena and Parma also being heavily affected .
German and French troops carried the plague to the city of Mantua in 1629 , as a result of troop movements associated with the Thirty Years ' War ( 1618-48 ) .	German and French troops carried the plague to the city of Mantua in 1629 , as a result of troop movements associated with the Thirty Years ' War ( 1618-1648 ) .
This outbreak of plague also spread north into Tyrol , an alpine region of western Austria and northern Italy .	This outbreak of plague also spread north into Tyrol , an alpine region of western Austria and northern Italy .
Venetian troops , infected with the disease , retreated into northern and central Italy , spreading the infection .	Venetian troops , infected with the disease , retreated into northern and central Italy , spreading the infection .
In October 1629 , the plague reached Milan , Lombardy 's major commercial center .	In October 1629 , the plague reached Milan , Lombardy 's commercial center .
The Italian Plague of 1629-31 was a series of outbreaks of bubonic plague which occurred from 1629 through 1631 in northern Italy .	The Italian Plague of 1629-1631 was a series of outbreaks of bubonic plague from 1629 through 1631 in northern Italy .
This episode is considered one of the last outbreaks of the centuries-long pandemic of bubonic plague which began with the Black Death .	This episode is considered one of the last outbreaks of the centuries long pandemic of bubonic plague which began with the Black Death .
This epidemic , often referred to as Great Plague of Milan , claimed the lives of approximately 280,000 people , with the cities of the Lombardy and Veneto regions experiencing particularly high death rates .	This epidemic , often called the Great Plague of Milan , killed about 280,000 people .
BVI is an application that can be used on a 3D Full Body Scanner to determine individual health risk , whether the scanning hardware uses visible light optical information or otherwise .	The BVI is used on a 3D full body scanner to determine the health risk of the person scanned .
The Body Volume Index ( BVI ) is a new measurement for obesity , proposed as an alternative to the Body Mass Index ( BMI ) .	The Body Volume Index is a proposed alternative to the Body Mass Index ( BMI ) .
A number of medications are useful for preventing further episodes of gout , including xanthine oxidase inhibitor ( including allopurinol and febuxostat ) and uricosurics ( including probenecid and sulfinpyrazone ) .	A number of medications are useful for preventing further episodes of gout , including xanthine oxidase inhibitor ( including allopurinol and febuxostat ) , and uricosurics ( including probenecid and sulfinpyrazone ) .
Other blood tests commonly performed are white blood cell count , electrolytes , renal function , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR ) .	Other blood tests commonly performed are white blood cell count , electrolytes , renal function , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR ) .
However , both the white blood cells and ESR may be elevated due to gout in the absence of infection .	Both the white blood cells and ESR may be elevated due to gout in the absence of infection .
Extensive tophi may lead to chronic arthritis due to bone erosion .	Extensive tophi may lead to chronic arthritis due to bone erosion .
However , a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide does not seem to increase the risk .	However , a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide does not seem to increase the risk .
Pegloticase ( Krystexxa ) was approved in the USA to treat gout in 2010 .	Pegloticase ( Krystexxa ) was approved in the USA to treat gout in 2010 .
Diuretics have been associated with attacks of gout .	Diuretics are associated with attacks of gout .
This should be considered in those with signs of infection or those who do not improve with treatment .	This should be considered in those with signs of infection or those who do not improve with treatment .
Urate-lowering measures should be increased until serum uric acid levels are below 300-360 µmol \/ l ( 5.0-6 .0 mg\/dl ) , and are continued indefinitely .	Urate-lowering measures should be increased until serum uric acid levels are below 300-360 µmol \/ L ( 5.0-6 .0 mg\/dL ) .
Other conditions that look similar include pseudogout and rheumatoid arthritis .	Other conditions which present similarly include pseudogout and rheumatoid arthritis .
Gout was historically known as `` the disease of kings '' or `` rich man 's disease . ''	Gout was historically known as `` the disease of kings '' or `` the disease of rich men '' .
A white blood cell count as high as 40.0 × 109\/l ( 40,000 \/ mm3 ) has been documented .	A white blood cell count as high as 40.0 × 109\/L ( 40,000 \/ mm3 ) has been documented in people with gout .
Gout can present in a number of ways , although the most usual is a recurrent attack of acute inflammatory arthritis ( a red , tender , hot , swollen joint ) .	Gout can present in a number of ways , although the most common is a recurrent attack of intense inflammatory arthritis ( a red , tender , hot , swollen joint ) .
Hyperuricemia is defined as a plasma urate level greater than 420 μmol \/ l ( 7.0 mg\/dl ) in males and 360 μmol \/ l ( 6.0 mg\/dl ) in females .	Hyperuricemia is defined as a plasma urate level greater than 420 μmol \/ L ( 7.0 mg\/dL ) in males and 360 μmol \/ L ( 6.0 mg\/dL ) in females .
High levels of uric acid in the blood ( hyperuricemia ) is the underlying cause of gout .	A very high , abnormal level of uric acid in the blood ( hyperuricemia ) is the basic cause of gout .
A definitive diagnosis of gout is based upon the identification of monosodium urate crystals in synovial fluid or a tophus .	A definitive diagnosis of gout is based upon the identification of monosodium urate ( MSU ) crystals in joint fluid or a tophus .
About 10 % of people with hyperuricemia develop gout at some point in their lifetimes .	About 10 % of people with hyperuricemia develop gout at some point in their lives .
The immunosuppressive drugs ciclosporin and tacrolimus are also associated with gout , the former more so when used in combination with hydrochlorothiazide .	The immunosuppressive drugs ciclosporin and tacrolimus are also associated with gout .
Hyperuricemia is a classic feature of gout , but it occurs nearly half of the time without hyperuricemia , and most people with raised uric acid levels never develop gout .	Gout occurs nearly half of the time without hyperuricemia and most people with raised uric acid levels never develop gout .
Other medicines that increase the risk include niacin and aspirin ( acetylsalicylic acid ) .	Other medicines associated with causing gout attacks include niacin and aspirin ( acetylsalicylic acid ) .
Other conditions commonly complicated by gout include : polycythemia , lead poisoning , renal failure , hemolytic anemia , psoriasis , and solid organ transplants .	Gout often makes these other problems worse or harder to treat : polycythemia , lead poisoning , renal failure , hemolytic anemia , psoriasis , and solid organ transplants .
They are not recommended until a person has had two attacks of gout , unless destructive joint changes , tophi , or urate nephropathy exist , as medications have not been found cost-effective until this point .	This treatment is not recommended until a person has suffered two gout attacks , unless destructive joint changes , tophi , or urate nephropathy exist .
Three genes called SLC2A9 , SLC22A12 and ABCG2 have been found commonly to be associated with gout , and variations in them can approximately double the risk .	Two genes called SLC2A9 and ABCG2 are commonly associated with gout .
Long-standing elevated uric acid levels ( hyperuricemia ) may result in other symptomatology , including hard , painless deposits of uric acid crystals known as tophi .	High levels of uric acid in the blood over a long period of time ( hyperuricemia ) may cause other symptoms such as hard , painless deposits of uric acid crystals known as tophi .
The increase is believed due to increasing risk factors in the population , such as metabolic syndrome , longer life expectancy and changes in diet .	Metabolic syndrome , longer life expectancy , and changes in diet are the most common risk factors .
Xanthine oxidase inhibitors ( including allopurinol and febuxostat ) block uric acid production , and long-term therapy is safe and well tolerated , and can be used in people with renal impairment or urate stones , although allopurinol has caused hypersensitivity in a small number of individuals .	Xanthine oxidase inhibitors ( including allopurinol and febuxostat ) block uric acid production .
The most important differential diagnosis in gout is septic arthritis .	The most important diagnosis to rule out in gout is septic arthritis ( an infection in the joint ) .
However , it may also present as tophi , kidney stones , or urate nephropathy .	The disease may also appear as tophi , kidney stones , or urate nephropathy ( kidney disease due to urate crystals ) .
Gout ( also known as podagra when it involves the big toe ) is a medical condition usually characterized by recurrent attacks of acute inflammatory arthritis-a red , tender , hot , swollen joint .	Gout ( also known as podagra when it involves the largest toe ) is a medical condition .
Its side effects ( primarily gastrointestinal upset ) limit its usage .	Its side effects , primarily gastrointestinal upset limit its use .
Gout frequently occurs in combination with other medical problems .	Gout often happens with other medical problems .
Gout has become more common in recent decades , affecting about 1-2 % of the Western population at some point in their lives .	Gout has become more common .
They also lead to improvement when injected into the joint ; a joint infection must be excluded , however , as steroids worsens this condition .	A joint infection must be excluded if the condition worsens .
Renal underexcretion of uric acid is the primary cause of hyperuricemia in about 90 % of cases , while overproduction is the cause in less than 10 % .	Overproduction of uric acid is the cause in less than 10 % of all cases .
Chronic lead exposure and lead-contaminated alcohol are risk factors for gout due to the harmful effect of lead on kidney function .	Frequent lead exposure and lead-contaminated alcohol are risk factors for gout because lead harms the kidney function .
A body mass index greater than or equal to 35 increases a male 's risk of gout threefold .	Males have three times the chance of getting gout when the body mass index is greater than or equal to 35 .
NSAIDs are the usual first-line treatment for gout , and no specific agent is significantly more or less effective than any other .	NSAIDs are the most common treatment for gout .
Recent studies have found that other dietary factors once believed associated are , in fact , not , including the intake of purine-rich vegetables ( e.g. , beans , peas , lentils , and spinach ) and total protein .	Eating purine-rich vegetables ( e.g. , beans , peas , lentils , and spinach ) large amounts of protein do not contribute to developing gout .
Gastrointestinal upset , however , depends on the dose , and the risk can be decreased by using a smaller yet still effective dose .	The occurrence of gastrointestinal upset depends on the dose .
When levels are between 415 and 530 μmol \/ l ( 7 and 8.9 mg\/dl ) , the risk is 0.5 % per year , while in those with a level greater than 535 μmol \/ l ( 9 mg\/dL ) , the risk is 4.5 % per year .	When uric acid levels in the blood are between 415 and 530 μmol \/ L ( 7 and 8.9 mg\/dL ) , the chance of getting gout is 0.5 % per year .
Uricosuric medications are typically preferred if undersecretion of uric acid , as indicated by a 24-hour collection of urine results in a uric acid amount of less than 800 mg , is found .	Uricosuric drugs are preferred for treating gout if there is not enough uric acid in the urine defined by a 24-hour collection of urine with less than 800 mg of uric acid .
Elevated levels of uric acid may also lead to crystals precipitating in the kidneys , resulting in stone formation and subsequent urate nephropathy .	This causes stone formation followed by urate nephropathy .
The occurrence of gout is partly genetic , contributing to about 60 % of variability in uric acid level .	Inherited factors are about 60 % responsible for the variability in uric acid level .
Most ectopic pregnancies occur in the Fallopian tube ( so-called tubal pregnancies ) , but implantation can also occur in the cervix , ovaries , and abdomen .	Ectopic pregnancies are also called tubal pregnancies because they usually occur in a fallopian tube .
There is no inflammation of the tube in ectopic pregnancy .	There are two main ways to treat an ectopic pregnancy .
Fallopian cilia are sometimes seen in reduced numbers subsequent to an ectopic pregnancy , leading to a hypothesis that cilia damage in the Fallopian tubes is likely to lead to an ectopic pregnancy .	Because in an ectopic pregnancy the egg grows ( usually ) in the fallopian tube , the fallopian tube can become damaged , making it more likely for another egg to get stuck there .
The vast majority of ectopic pregnancies implant in the Fallopian tube .	The likeness of another ectopic pregnancy depends on the amount of damage to the fallopian tube , and the health of the tubes .
Normally , in children , it forms a soft mound in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx , just above and behind the uvula .	Normally , in children , they make a soft mound in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx , just above and behind the uvula .
The adenoid , also known as a pharyngeal tonsil or nasopharyngeal tonsil , is a mass of lymphatic tissue situated posterior to the nasal cavity , in the roof of the nasopharynx , where the nose blends into the throat .	Adenoids ( also called pharyngeal tonsils , or nasopharyngeal tonsils ) are tissues at the very back of the nose , in the roof of the nasopharynx , where the nose blends into the mouth .
It is distinguished from geriatrics , which is the branch of medicine that studies the diseases of older adults .	It is distinguished from geriatrics , which is the branch of medicine that studies the disease of the elderly .
Himmler was responsible for establishing and operating concentration camps and extermination camps in which millions of inmates died of systematic mass gassing , shooting , hanging , inhumane treatment , overwork , malnutrition or medical experiments .	The SS was responsible for establishing and operating concentration camps and extermination camps in which millions of inmates died of inhumane treatment , exploitation , malnutrition or medical experiments .
A woman experiences full orgasm when her uterus , vagina , anus , and pelvic muscles undergo a series of rhythmic contractions .	When a woman goes through a full orgasm , her uterus , vagina , anus and pelvic muscles undergo a series of rhythmic contractions .
Women 's orgasms are preceded by erection of the clitoris and moistening of the opening of the vagina .	It is preceded by an erection of the clitoris and a moistening of the opening of the vagina .
On 17 March 1979 , Walter Legge suffered a severe heart attack .	On 17 March 1979 , Walter Legge had a serious heart attack .
Both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria commonly have a surface layer called an S-layer .	On the other hand , gram-negative bacteria have thin , insignificant peptidoglycan layers , so they do need rigid cell walls for support and protection .
In gram-positive bacteria , the S-layer is attached to the peptidoglycan layer ( in gram-negative bacteria , the S-layer is attached directly to the outer membrane ) .	Gram-positive organisms have thick peptidoglycan layer .
Stomach cancer causes over 700,000 deaths worldwide per year .	Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 deaths worldwide per year .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer , refers to cancer arising from any part of the stomach .	Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer , is a kind of cancer from any part of the stomach .
Du Pré recalled that she had problems judging the weight of the bow , and just opening the cello case had become difficult .	Du Pré later said she had difficulty in opening the cello case .
She was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in October 1973 .	In October 1973 it was confirmed that she had multiple sclerosis .
Simple compartments , called vesicles or vacuoles , can form by budding off other membranes .	Simple bags , called vesicles or vacuoles , are sometimes made by budding off other membranes , just like how children make bubbles with their toys .
In most eukaryotes , these protein-carrying vesicles are released and further modified in stacks of flattened vesicles , called Golgi bodies or dictyosomes .	In most eukaryotes , the vesicles with proteins inside fuse with piles of flattened vesicles called the Golgi bodies , where the proteins inside are changed again .
Subsequently , they generally enter vesicles , which bud off from the smooth ER .	After that , they usually go into vesicles , which grow and pinch off from the smooth ER .
The nucleus is surrounded by a double membrane ( commonly referred to as a nuclear envelope ) , with pores that allow material to move in and out .	The nucleus is surrounded by two membranes membrane that has holes in it so things can go in and out .
It includes the rough ER where ribosomes are attached to synthesize proteins , which enter the interior space or lumen .	The proteins made by the ribosomes attached to the rough ER go to the inside the rough ER , called the lumen .
This may be associated with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia or mania , and holds special significance in diagnosing these conditions .	This can be a sign of some psychotic disorders , such as schizophrenia or mania .
Other reasons include hearing loss and epileptic activity .	This is usually caused by damage to the brain , hearing loss or epileptic activity .
The Iran Civil Aviation Organization stated the day after the crash that a total of 93 passengers and 12 crew were on board , according to the manifest of the flight .	The Iran Civil Aviation Organization said the day after the crash that a total of 93 passengers and 12 crew were on board .
Heihachi , while managing to survive , is rendered in a coma , and the following day , Heihachi 's supposed death is declared all over the world with everyone foreseeing the end of the Mishima Zaibatsu .	After hearing of Heihachi 's death , people though that it would bring the end of the Mishima Zaibatsu .
Martin Staemmler , a prominent physician during the Third Reich , opined that smoking by pregnant women resulted in a higher rate of stillbirths and miscarriages .	Martin Staemmler , an important doctor during the Third Reich , said that smoking by pregnant women resulted in a higher rate of stillbirths and miscarriages .
Werner Huttig of the Nazi Party 's Rassenpolitisches Amt ( Office of Racial Politics ) said that a smoking mother 's breast milk contained nicotine , a claim that modern research has proven correct .	Werner Huttig of the Nazi Party 's Rassenpolitisches Amt ( Office of Racial Politics ) claimed smoking mothers ' breast milk contained nicotine .
The Nazi anti-tobacco campaign included banning smoking in trams , buses and city trains , promoting health education , limiting cigarette rations in the Wehrmacht , organizing medical lectures for soldiers , and raising the tobacco tax .	The Nazi anti-tobacco campaign used many methods like restrictions on smoking in public spaces , limiting tobacco advertising , restrictions on tobacco rations for women , restrictions on restaurants and coffeehouses , promoting health education , banning smoking in trams , buses and city trains , limiting cigarette rations in the Wehrmacht , organizing medical lectures for soldiers and increasing the tobacco tax .
Women who smoked were considered to be vulnerable to premature aging and loss of physical attractiveness ; they were viewed as unsuitable to be wives and mothers in a German family .	Women who smoked were considered to be more likely to age prematurely , and lose physical attractiveness ; they were viewed as unsuitable to be wives and mothers in a German family .
Adolf Hitler was a heavy smoker in his early life-he used to smoke 25 to 40 cigarettes daily-but gave up the habit , concluding that it was a waste of money .	Adolf Hitler was a heavy smoker in his early life , smoking 25 to 40 cigarettes daily .
The anti-tobacco movement did not have much effect in the early years of the Nazi regime and tobacco use increased between 1933 and 1939 , but smoking by military personnel declined from 1939 to 1945 .	But smoking by military personnel declined from 1939 to 1945 .
Example : baldness in humans .	Example : baldness in humans .
Sex-influenced or sex-conditioned traits are phenotypes affected by whether they appear in a male or female body .	Sex-influenced or sex-conditioned traits are phenotypes affected by whether they appear in a male or female body .
Even in a homozygous dominant or recessive female the condition may not be expressed fully .	Even in a homozygous female the condition may not be expressed fully .
Each son born to a carrier mother has a 50 % probability of inheriting the X-chromosome carrying the mutant allele .	However , if the mutant allele is carried by a male , the condition will develop , because his X chromosome has the mutant allele , but his Y chromosome has no allele at that locus .
For example , an X-linked recessive allele in humans causes hemophilia .	They are caused by recessive alleles , and usually do not show the condition in females .
Until 1935 he was a student and assistant of the founders of Gestalt psychology in Berlin : Max Wertheimer , Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka .	Until 1935 he was a student and assistant of the founders of Gestalt psychology in Berlin : Max Wertheimer , Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka .
Duncker coined the term functional fixedness for describing the difficulties in visual perception and in problem solving that arise from the fact that one element of a whole situation already has a ( fixed ) function which has to be changed for making the correct perception or for finding the solution to the problem .	Duncker coined the term functional fixedness in visual perception and problem solving .
Protein-coding sequences account for only a very small fraction of the genome ( approximately 1.5 % ) , and the rest is associated with non-coding RNA molecules , regulatory DNA sequences , LINEs , SINEs , introns , and sequences for which as yet no function has been elucidated .	In fact , only about 1.5 % of the genome codes for proteins , while the rest consists of non-coding RNA genes , regulatory sequences , and introns .
All of its long bones have hollow shafts .	It was about 3 feet long ( 1 m ) ; it had light , hollow bones , a long head with dozens of small , sharp teeth , and five fingers on its grasping hands ( two of the fingers on each hand were very small ) .
Kao has been suffering from Alzheimer 's disease since early 2004 and has speech difficulty , but has no problem recognizing people or addresses .	Kao has been suffering from Alzheimer 's disease since early 2004 and has speech difficulty , but has no problem recognizing people or addresses .
It was most likely this house painting that caused him to fall sick with tuberculosis .	It was most likely this house painting that caused him to fall sick with tuberculosis .
Warren Tubbs died in 1910 of pneumonia during a blizzard .	Warren Tubbs died in 1910 in of pneumonia during a blizzard .
The official coroner 's report showed that she had accidentally drowned in the bathtub , with heart disease and cocaine use listed as contributing factors .	The official coroner 's report stated that she had accidentally drowned in the bathtub .
She last lived in Morganton , North Carolina , and died at the age of 93 in Fairfax , Virginia , while visiting a daughter who had suffered a stroke .	She died at the age of 93 in Fairfax , Virginia , while visiting a daughter who had suffered a stroke .
Because infants inhibit their mothers from ovulating by nursing frequently , males are able to bring females into estrus earlier by killing the infants and thereby terminating nursing ; this has the effect of increasing their breeding opportunities .	Because infants inhibit their mothers from ovulating by nursing frequently , males are able to bring females into estrus earlier by killing the infants and thereby terminating nursing ; this has the effect of increasing their breeding opportunities .
The white-headed capuchin 's intelligence and ability to use tools allows them to be trained to assist paraplegics .	The white-headed capuchin 's intelligence and ability to use tools allows them to be trained to assist paraplegics .
It is a highly intelligent monkey and has been trained to assist paraplegic persons .	It is a very intelligent monkey and has been trained to assist paraplegic people .
Additionally , use of neologisms may be related to aphasia acquired after brain damage resulting from a stroke or head injury .	Additionally , use of neologisms may be related to aphasia acquired after brain damage resulting from a stroke or head injury .
This tendency is considered normal in children , but in adults it can be a symptom of psychopathy or a thought disorder ( indicative of a psychotic mental illness , such as schizophrenia ) .	In adults , it can be a symptom of psychopathy or a thought disorder , such as a a psychotic mental illness , for example schizophrenia .
There are two key forms of nystagmus : pathological and physiological , with variations within each type .	There are two types of Nystagmus .
At the age of eight , she was struck by an automobile in front of the family home , and her legs suffered multiple fractures .	At age 8 , she was hit by a car in front of her house and broke both of her legs .
On Saturday 2 April 2005 , at about 15:30 CEST , John Paul II spoke his final words in Polish , `` Pozwólcie mi odejść do domu Ojca '' ( `` Allow me to depart to the house of the Father '' ) , to his aides , and fell into a coma about four hours later .	John Paul II spoke his final words , `` pozwólcie mi odejść do domu Ojca '' , ( `` Let me depart to the house of the Father '' ) , to his aides , and fell into a coma about four hours later .
On 29 February 1944 , Wojtyła was hit by a German truck .	On 29 February 1944 , Wojtyła was knocked down by a German truck ( lorry ) .
In an emotional call for peace , John Paul II said : While taking a traditional position on sexuality , defending the Church 's moral opposition to marriage for same-sex couples , Pope John Paul II asserted that people with homosexual inclinations possess the same inherent dignity and rights as everybody else .	But he said that homosexuals have the same inherent dignity and rights as everybody else .
The symptoms of body dysmorphia include depression , social phobia , and obsessive compulsive disorder .	Obsessive-compulsive disorder .
Although he seemed to be gradually recovering from his stroke , another one in 1879 ended his career as a violinist for good .	Although he seemed to be slowly recovering from his stroke , another one in 1879 ended his career as a violinist for good .
A paralytic stroke disabled his right arm two years later and he moved to Paris again , his violin class being taken over by Henryk Wieniawski .	A paralytic stroke disabled his right arm two years later .
Some anaerobic bacteria produce clinically important toxins ( e.g. tetanus ) .	Some anaerobic bacteria produce toxins ( e.g. , tetanus or botulinum toxins ) that are highly dangerous to higher organisms , including humans .
He edited the Philosophical Transactions in 1678-1679 , and in 1681 he published by request a descriptive catalogue of the rarities preserved at Gresham College , with which were printed some papers he had read to the Royal Society on the Comparative Anatomy of Stomachs and Guts .	He edited the Philosophical Transactions in 1678-1679 , and in 1681 he published by request a descriptive catalogue of the rarities preserved at Gresham College .
Felching is a sexual practice involving the act of orally sucking semen out of the vagina or anus of one 's partner .	Felching is a human sexual practice in which one person sucks semen or other fluids out out of the vagina or anus of a another person .
Peek , 58 , died of a heart attack at his home on December 19 , 2009 .	On December 19 , 2009 at age 58 , Peek died of a heart attack in Murray , Utah .
Infection generally occurs through wound contamination and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound .	Infection generally occurs through wound contamination , and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound .
Infection can be prevented by proper immunization or post-exposure prophylaxis .	Infection can be prevented by proper immunization and by post-exposure prophylaxis .
As the infection progresses , muscle spasms develop in the jaw ( thus the name lockjaw ) and elsewhere in the body .	As the infection goes on , muscle spasms develop in the jaw .
The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin , a neurotoxin produced by the Gram-positive , rod-shaped , obligate anaerobic bacterium Clostridium tetani .	The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin , a neurotoxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium Clostridium tetani .
The name Vibrio derives from Filippo Pacini who isolated microorganisms he called `` vibrions '' from cholera patients in 1854 , because of their motility .	The name Vibrio derives from Filippo Pacini who isolated microorganisms he called `` vibrions '' from cholera patients in 1854 .
Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria possessing a curved rod shape ( comma shape ) , several species of which can cause foodborne infection , usually associated with eating undercooked seafood .	Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria possessing a curved rod , shapeseveral species of which can cause foodborne infection , usually associated with eating undercooked seafood .
He died in Seoul , South Korea in August 2010 due to pneumonia and colorectal cancer at age 74 .	He was active in his work even before he passed away on August 12 , 2010 because of the pneumonia and colorectal cancer at age 74 .
Primarily obsessional OCD has been called `` one of the most distressing and challenging forms of OCD . ''	One type of OCD is Primarily Obsessional Obsessive Compulsive Disorder .
Not to be confused with Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder .	OCD should not be confused with OCPD , obsessive-compulsive personality disorder .
The most common sleep disorders include : The following tests are used to diagnose insomnia .	The most common sleep disorders include : Changes in life style , such as shift work change or traveling over several time zones , can cause sleep disorders .
Along with this , some studies have found that women have a more responsive immune system and are more prone to mucosal dryness and facial erythema .	Along with this , some studies found that women have a more responsive immune system and are more prone to mucosal dryness and facial erythema .
Building occupants complain of symptoms such as sensory irritation of the eyes , nose , throat ; neurotoxic or general health problems ; skin irritation ; nonspecific hypersensitivity reactions ; and odor and taste sensations .	Building occupants complain of symptoms such as irritation of the eyes , nose , throat ; neurotoxic or general health problems ; skin irritation ; nonspecific hypersensitivity reactions ; and odor and taste sensations .
Other causes have been attributed to contaminants produced by outgassing of some types of building materials , volatile organic compounds ( VOC ) , molds ( see mold health issues ) , improper exhaust ventilation of ozone ( byproduct of some office machinery ) , light industrial chemicals used within , or lack of adequate fresh-air intake\/air filtration ( see Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value ) .	Other causes have been contaminants produced by outgassing of some types of building materials , volatile organic compounds ( VOC ) , molds ( see mold health issues ) , improper exhaust ventilation of ozone ( byproduct of some office machinery ) , using light industrial chemicals in the building , or lack of adequate fresh-air intake\/air filtration ( see Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value ) .
There might be a gender difference in reporting rates of sick building syndrome because women tend to report more symptoms than men do .	The following steps can avoid SBS : There might be a gender difference in reporting rates of sick building syndrome because women tend to report more symptoms than men .
Sick building causes are frequently pinned down to flaws in the heating , ventilation , and air conditioning ( HVAC ) systems .	SBS can be caused by flaws in the heating , ventilation , and air conditioning ( HVAC ) systems .
Symptoms are often dealt with after the fact by boosting the overall turn-over rate of fresh air exchange with the outside air , but the new green building design goal should be able to avoid most of the SBS problem sources in the first place , minimize the ongoing use of VOC cleaning compounds , and eliminate conditions that encourage allergenic mold growth .	Janitors should minimize the ongoing use of VOC cleaning compounds , and eliminate conditions that encourage allergenic , potentially-deadly mold growth .
This is a real-life example from a medical study comparing the success rates of two treatments for kidney stones .	This is a real-life example from a medical study comparing the success rates of two treatments for kidney stones .
The paradoxical conclusion is that treatment A is more effective when used on small stones , and also when used on large stones , yet treatment B is more effective when considering both sizes at the same time .	The table shows the success rates and numbers of treatments for treatments involving both small and large kidney stones , where Treatment A includes all open procedures and Treatment B is percutaneous nephrolithotomy : The paradoxical conclusion is that treatment A is more effective when used on small stones , and also when used on large stones , yet treatment B is more effective when considering both sizes at the same time .
There are three basic types of biological pest control strategies : importation ( sometimes called classical biological control ) , augmentation and conservation .	There are three basic types of biological control strategies ; conservation , classical biological control , and augmentation .
Pathogenic micro-organisms include bacteria , fungi , and viruses .	Pathogens are disease-causing organisms including bacteria , fungi , and viruses .
The conservation of existing natural enemies in an environment is the third method of biological pest control .	Biological control , or biological pest control , is the reduction of pest populations by using natural enemies .
In January 2005 , Claire Borowik , a spokesperson for TFI , issued a statement that said , `` Due to the fact that our current zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual interaction between adults and underage minors was not clearly stated in our literature published before 1986 , we came to the realization that during a transitional stage of our movement , from 1978 until 1986 , there were cases when some minors were subject to sexually inappropriate advances ... This was corrected officially in 1986 , when any contact between an adult and minor ( any person under 21 years of age ) was declared an excommunicable offense '' .	In January 2005 , Claire Borowik , spokesperson for TFI , issued a statement that said , `` Due to the fact that our current zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual interaction between adults and underage minors was not clearly stated in our literature published before 1986 , we came to the realization that during a transitional stage of our movement , from 1978 until 1986 , there were cases when some minors were subject to sexually inappropriate advances ... This was corrected officially in 1986 , when any contact between an adult and minor ( any person under 21 years of age ) was declared an excommunicable offense '' .
Cholera is an infection of the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .	It is caused by a bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
If commercially produced oral rehydration solutions are too expensive or difficult to obtain , solutions can be made .	The best way to give this by mouth is WHO-ORS : World Health Organization Oral Rehydration Solution .
At the time it was generally thought that the point at which the optic nerve entered the eye should actually be the most sensitive portion of the retina ; however , Mariotte 's discovery disproved this theory .	At the time it was generally thought that the point at which the optic nerve entered the eye should actually be the most sensitive portion of the retina ; however , Mariotte 's discovery disproved this theory .
In them , the optic nerve approaches the receptors from behind , so it does not create a break in the retina .	In them , the optic nerve approaches the receptors from behind , so it does not create a break in the retina .
Since there are no cells to detect light on the optic disc , a part of the field of vision is not perceived .	Since there are no cells to detect light on the optic disc , a part of the field of vision is not perceived .
A particular blind spot known as the blind spot , physiological blind spot , `` blind point '' , or punctum caecum in medical literature , is the place in the visual field that corresponds to the lack of light-detecting photoreceptor cells on the optic disc of the retina where the optic nerve passes through the optic disc .	It is the place in the visual field that corresponds to the lack of light-detecting photoreceptor cells where the optic nerve passes through the optic disc of the retina .
Tchaikovsky wrote his Piano Trio in A minor in Rubinstein 's memory after he died from tuberculosis in Paris .	Tchaikovsky wrote his Piano Trio in A minor in Rubinstein 's memory .
This left him no time to train during the day , so he would sneak out of the house at night to train , sometimes at 1 or 2 a.m. and often in the freezing cold .	He had no time to train during the day , so he would sneak out of the house at night to train , sometimes at 1 or 2 a.m. and often in the freezing cold .
On July 27 , 2006 , the Phonak Cycling Team announced a urine sample submitted by Floyd Landis tested positive for an unusually high ratio of the hormone testosterone to the hormone epitestosterone ( T\/E ratio ) after his performance in stage 17 of the 2006 Tour de France .	On July 27 , 2006 the Phonak Cycling Team said Floyd Landis had a urine test come back positive , having an unusually high ratio of the hormone testosterone to the hormone epitestosterone ( T\/E ratio ) after Stage 17 .
Substance D is instantly addictive , beginning with a pleasant euphoria which is quickly replaced with increasing confusion , hallucinations and eventually total psychosis .	This feeling is quickly replaced with increasing confusion , hallucinations and eventually total psychosis .
The word diet often implies the use of specific intake of nutrition for health or weight-management reasons ( with the two often being related ) .	With the word diet , it is often expressed the use of specific intake of nutrition for health or weight-management reasons ( with the two often being related ) .
Proper nutrition requires ingestion and absorption of vitamins , minerals , and food energy in the form of carbohydrates , proteins , and fats .	A proper nutrition requires a proper ingestion and , also important , the absorption of vitamins , minerals , and food energy in the form of carbohydrates , proteins , and fats .
In nutrition , diet is the sum of food consumed by a person or other organism .	In nutrition , diet is the sum of food that is eaten by a person or another organism .
They also have high levels of potassium , which benefits those with high blood pressure .	They also have high levels of potassium , which benefits those with high blood pressure .
Cantaloupes are particularly beneficial to people with heart disease , as they have large of amounts of an anticoagulant known as adenosine .	Cantaloupes are particularly beneficial to people with heart disease , as they have large of amounts of an anticoagulant known as adenosine .
Elsewhere , seeds were ground into a powder and used to treat tuberculosis .	Elsewhere , seeds were ground into a powder and used to treat tuberculosis .
He died at home of Bright 's Disease in 1899 and was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery .	He died at home of Bright 's Disease in 1899 and was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery .
Thereafter , he worked at the Liverpool Royal Infirmary , the Joseph Tie Laboratory , and the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis .	In his younger days he worked for the Liverpool Royal Infirmary , the Thompson Yates Laboratory , and the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis .
Teenage pregnancy is pregnancy in human females under the age of 20 at the time that the pregnancy ends .	Teenage pregnancies have a number of problems :
The pervasive developmental disorders are : The first three of these disorders are commonly called the autism spectrum disorders ; the last two disorders are much rarer , and are sometimes placed in the autism spectrum and sometimes not .	The five disorders are : The first three of these disorders are also called autism spectrum disorders .
The diagnostic category pervasive developmental disorders ( PDD ) , as opposed to specific developmental disorders ( SDD ) , refers to a group of five disorders characterized by delays in the development of multiple basic functions including socialization and communication .	Pervasive developmental disorders ( PDD ) , are a group of disorders .
They are viewed as symbols of womanhood , fertility , birth and wealth .	They are also worn as jewelry or otherwise used as ornaments or charms , as they are viewed as symbols of womanhood , fertility , birth and wealth .
Radiological examination of his bones showed `` age-conditioned or strain-induced degeneration '' in these areas , including osteochondrosis and slight spondylosis in the lumbar spine and wear-and-tear degeneration in the knee and especially the ankle joints .	X-ray examination of his bones showed `` age-conditioned or strain-induced degeneration '' in these areas .
Forecast on nutrition and ecological footprint The race for natural resources will be hard , the biocapacity of the world will be exploited more and more .	Forecast on nutrition and ecological footprint The race for natural resources will be hard , the biocapacity of the world will be used more and more .
The cornea is the transparent front part of the eye that covers the iris , pupil , and anterior chamber .	It is the clear transparent section of the eye which that covers the iris , pupil , and the eye chamber .
The cornea , with the anterior chamber and lens , refracts light , with the cornea accounting for approximately two-thirds of the eye 's total optical power .	The cornea , with the lens , refracts light .
Hemoglobin Lepore syndrome or Hb Lepore syndrome ( Hb Lepore ) is typically an asymptomatic hemoglobinopathy , which is caused by an autosomal recessive genetic mutation .	Hemoglobin Lepore syndrome ( Hb Lepore ) is a kind of blood disorder that is caused by a genetic mutation .
Minor bruises may be easily recognized in people with light skin color by characteristic blue or purple appearance ( idiomatically described as `` black and blue '' ) in the days following the injury .	Minor bruises may be easily recognized , in people with light skin color , by their characteristic blue or purple appearance ( idiomatically described as `` black and blue '' ) in the days following the injury .
During this time , larger bruises may change color due to the breakdown of hemoglobin from within escaped red blood cells in the extracellular space .	Bruises change color over time .
However , the entire spectrum of ultraviolet radiation has some of the biological features of ionizing radiation : It does far more damage to many molecules in biological systems than is accounted for by simple heating effects ( an example is sunburn ) .	Ultraviolet light is a type of ionizing radiation .
The glans penis is the expanded cap of the corpus spongiosum .	The glans penis is a cap around the corpus spongiosum .
The meatus ( opening ) of the urethra is located at the tip of the glans penis .	The glans penis ( or just glans ) is the sensitive tip of the penis .
Birley et al. report that excessive washing with soap may dry the mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and cause non-specific dermatitis .	The epithelium of the glans penis is moist and washing it too much can dry the mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and cause dermatitis .
The glans is more commonly known as the `` head of the penis '' .	It is also called the `` head '' of the penis .
Typically , the glans is completely or partially covered by the foreskin , except in men who have been circumcised , though the foreskin can generally be retracted over and past the glans .	When the penis is not erect , it is covered by the foreskin , except in men who have been circumcised .
Getty lived the rest of his life in the British Isles , dying of heart failure at the age of 83 on June 6 , 1976 .	Getty lived the rest of his life in the British Isles , dying of heart failure at the age of 83 on June 6 , 1976 .
On August 19 , 1905 , Bouguereau died in La Rochelle at the age of 79 from heart disease .	Bouguereau died at the age of 79 on August 19 , 1905 from heart disease .
In 1940 , at the age of 51 , Midgley contracted poliomyelitis , which left him severely disabled .	In 1940 , at the age of 51 , Midgley became ill with polio which left him disabled .
Nansen studied zoology at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania ( renamed Oslo in 1925 ) , and later worked as a curator at the Bergen Museum where his research on the central nervous system of lower marine creatures earned him a doctorate and helped establish modern theories of neurology .	Nansen studied zoology at the Royal Frederick University , and later worked as a curator at the Bergen Museum where his research on the central nervous system of lower marine creatures earned him a doctorate and helped establish modern theories of neurology .
Beutler is best known for his pioneering molecular and genetic studies of inflammation and innate immunity .	Beutler is best known for his pioneering molecular and genetic studies of inflammation and innate immunity .
Beutler thus discovered the key sensors of microbial infection in mammals , demonstrating that one of the mammalian Toll-like receptors , TLR4 , acts as the membrane-spanning component of the mammalian LPS receptor complex .	He found that one of the mammalian toll-like receptors , TLR4 , acts as the membrane-spanning component of the mammalian LPS receptor complex .
They are central to the pathogenesis of sterile inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus .	They are also active in sterile inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus .
These receptors also mediate severe illness , including shock and systemic inflammation as it occurs in the course of an infection .	These receptors also work in severe illness , including shock and systemic inflammation as it occurs in the course of an infection .
Parrott suffered a heart attack and died while walking home from the county courthouse in Kenton , Ohio .	Parrott suffered a heart attack and died while walking home from the county courthouse in Kenton , Ohio .
Dixon died of heart failure in Burbank , California on January 29 , 1992 , and was buried in the Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip , Illinois .	Dixon died of heart failure in Burbank , California on January 29 , 1992 .
Two types of sweat glands can be found in humans : Eccrine glands and apocrine glands .	The sweat glands in our skin contains two different groups of sweat glands : apocrine sweat glands and merocrine sweat glands .
Erectile dysfunction ( also known as ED or '' ( male ) impotence '' ) is a sexual dysfunction characterized by the inability to develop and\/or maintain an erection .	Erectile dysfunction is also known as ED , impotence or male impotence .
Although many erect penises point upwards , it is common and normal for the erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards or nearly vertically downwards or even horizontally straight forward , all depending on the tension of the suspensory ligament that holds it in position .	However , it is common and normal for an erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards , nearly vertically downwards , or even horizontally forward .
An increase in penile curvature can be caused by Peyronie 's disease .	However , if the curvature of a penis changes , this could be caused by an illness called Peyronie 's disease ( see below ) .
RNAi is a valuable research tool , both in cell culture and in living organisms , because synthetic dsRNA introduced into cells can selectively and robustly induce suppression of specific genes of interest .	RNAi is a valuable research tool , in cell culture and in living organisms .
Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) or Ebola hemorrhagic fever ( EHF ) is the human disease that may be caused by any of four of the five known ebola viruses .	People who get infected with Ebola virus get the disease Ebola hemorrhagic fever .
Histone modifications act in diverse biological processes such as gene regulation , DNA repair , chromosome condensation ( mitosis ) and spermatogenesis ( meiosis ) .	Histone modifications act in diverse biological processes such as gene regulation , DNA repair and chromosome condensation ( mitosis ) .
Henry VII died at Richmond Palace on 21 April 1509 of tuberculosis and was buried at Westminster Abbey .	Henry VII was buried in Westminster Abbey .
On May 22 , 1967 , Hughes died from complications after abdominal surgery , related to prostate cancer , at the age of 65 .	( A tom-tom is an African drum ) On May 22 , 1967 , Hughes died at the age of 65 after having surgery for prostate cancer .
On December 15 , 2010 , Edwards died of complications of pneumonia at the Saint John 's Health Center in Santa Monica , California .	Edwards died on December 15 , 2010 from pneumonia in a hospital in Santa Monica , California , he was 88 years old .
These include heart disease , diabetes mellitus , many types of cancer , asthma , obstructive sleep apnea , and chronic musculoskeletal problems .	These include heart disease , diabetes , many types of cancer , asthma , sleep apnea , and problems with muscles and bones .
Bariatrics is the branch of medicine that deals with the causes , prevention , and treatment of obesity .	Bariatrics is the part of medicine that deals with obesity .
Forty-five days later , the player died on 26 June from an undetected heart condition while representing the Cameroon national football team during the 2003 Confederations Cup .	City 's final goal at the stadium was scored on 26 April 2003 by Marc-Vivien Foe , who died on 26 June that year from an undetected heart condition while representing the Cameroon national football team .
Allergic skin reactions can also occur .	Allergic skin reactions and asthma attacks can happen when breathing the dust made when these tiles are broken down .
During the shows in Sweden , Joacim Cans caught a serious throat infection which made it impossible for him to sing .	During the shows in Sweden , Joacim Cans caught a serious throat infection , and he could n't sing .
Shortly afterwards , Magnus Rosén was afflicted with the same disease , and after him the whole of HammerFall 's support crew became sick .	Magnus Rosén also caught the infection , and after him , all of HammerFall 's support crew became sick .
Alexandra is best remembered as the last Tsaritsa of Russia , as one of the most famous royal carriers of the hemophilia disease , and for her support of autocratic control over the country .	Alexandra is best remembered as the last Tsaritsa of Russia .
In December 1878 , diphtheria swept through the Grand Ducal House of Hesse .	In November of 1878 , diphtheria swept through Hesse .
There is no definitive cure for Cystic Fibrosis .	There is no cure for cystic fibrosis but there are things people can do to stay healthy .
Biological viruses can reproduce , but only by commandeering the reproductive machinery of cells through a process of infection .	Viruses can only reproduce by taking over the reproductive machinery of cells through a process of infection .
The show began running multi-episode stories and Casey developed a romantic relationship with Jane Hancock ( Stella Stevens ) , who had just emerged from a coma after thirteen years .	The show began running multi-episode stories and Casey developed a romantic relationship with a patient who had just emerged from a coma after thirteen years .
Achondroplasia is caused by a mutation in Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 ( FGFR3 ) .	Achondroplasia is caused by a change in the DNA for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 .
By the same token , he recognized that ascertainment was responsible for a phenomenon known as anticipation , the tendency for a genetic disease to manifest earlier in life and with increased severity in later generations .	By the same token , he recognized that ascertainment was responsible for a phenomenon known as genetic anticipation , the tendency for a genetic disease to manifest earlier in life and with increased severity in later generations .
Weinberg observed that proportions of homozygotes in familial studies of classic autosomal recessive genetic diseases generally exceed the expected Mendelian ratio of 1:4 , and he explained how this is the result of ascertainment bias .	Weinberg observed that proportions of homozygotes in familial studies of classic recessive genetic diseases generally exceed the expected Mendelian ratio of 1:4 , and he explained how this is the result of ascertainment bias .
In his work with albino children , he recognized that in some families where both parents carry a recessive mutation , no disease occurs by chance .	In his work with albino children , he recognized that in some families where both parents carry a recessive mutation , by chance no albino child occurs .
The blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid ( BECF ) in the central nervous system ( CNS ) .	It separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid in the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Kennedy died at the age of 82 on September 17 , 2006 in her Manhattan home from pneumonia .	Lawford died at her Manhattan home from pneumonia at the age of 82 .
Nucleosomes are folded through a series of successively higher order structures to eventually form a chromosome ; this both compacts DNA and creates an added layer of regulatory control , which ensures correct gene expression .	Nucleosomes are folded , in a series of higher order structures , to form a chromosome .
A person with a disability gets these benefits as well as increased social activity by taking up an activity like scuba diving .	A person with a disability gets these benefits as well as increased social activity by taking up an activity like scuba diving .
The organization was established in 1993 , with the aim to promote , develop and conduct programs for the training in scuba diving of people with a disability .	The International Association of Handicapped Divers , the IAHD , is an association whose aim is to promote , develop and conduct programs for the training of people with a disability in scuba diving .
A few days later Ho went into cardiac arrest .	A few days later Ho went into cardiac arrest .
He contacted a biotechnology company specializing in treating heart conditions with adult stem cells working in conjunction with Dr. Shoa , cardiac surgeon and pioneer of the use of adult stem cells for heart disease .	This company was working with Dr. Shoa , cardiac surgeon and one of the first people to work with adult stem cells for heart disease .
Although he had a new pacemaker installed on September 16 , 2006 , he collapsed and died in his Waikīkī apartment from heart failure on April 14 , 2007 .	He had had a new pacemaker installed on September 16 , 2006 , but still died in Waikīkī from heart failure on April 14 , 2007 .
In 1995 at the age of 65 , Ho 's health began declining which began with a mild stroke .	In 1995 at the age of 65 , Ho 's health began to get bad .
Ho was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy in 2005 and had a pacemaker implanted .	Ho was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy in 2005 .
Though braille is thought to be the main way blind people read and write , in Britain ( for example ) out of the reported 2 million visually impaired population , it is estimated that only around 15-20 thousand people use braille .	Though braille is thought to be the main way blind people read and write , in Britain ( for example ) out of the reported 2 million visually impaired population , it is estimated that only around 15-20 thousand people use Braille .
This alkaloid causes strong muscle convulsions and hypertension combined with hyperventilation in all vertebrates .	This alkaloid causes strong muscle convulsions and high-blood pressure combined with hyperventilation in all vertebrates .
Compounds in the skin secretions may be effective against bacterial and fungal infections of the epidermis ; some are potentially dangerous to human life .	Most of these secretions might be effective against bacterial and fungal infections of the epidermis , but some secretions could also be dangerous to human life .
There are several different types of white blood cells .	There are three known types of lymphocytes , called T-cells , B-cells , and natural killer cells ( NK cells ) .
This type of white blood cell decreased is usually the neutrophil .	Neutrophils are the most abundant type of white blood cells in mammals , 70 % of leukocytes .
White blood cells ( WBCs ) , also called leukocytes or leucocytes , are the cells of the immune system that are involved in defending the body against both infectious disease and foreign materials .	The job of white blood cells ( also called leukocytes ) is to fight infections and cancer .
Further inquiry should determine whether the pain is superficial or deep - whether it occurs primarily at the vaginal outlet or vaginal barrel or upon deep thrusting against the cervix .	Inquiry should determine whether the pain is superficial or deep - whether it occurs primarily at the vaginal outlet or vaginal barrel or upon deep thrusting against the cervix .
When the vagina is dry and undilated , thrusting of the penis is painful .	When the vagina is dry and undilated , thrusting of the penis is painful .
When pain occurs , the woman experiencing dyspareunia may be distracted from feeling pleasure and excitement .	When a woman experiences a painful sexual act , the pain may distract her from feeling pleasure and excitement .
For men with IC , pain occurs at the moment of ejaculation and is focused at the tip of the penis .	Men suffering from cystitis may experience intense pain at the moment of ejaculation and is focused at the tip of the penis .
It is important to establish whether the dyspareunia is acquired or congenital and whether it is generalized ( complete ) or situational .	It is worth to be sure whether the painful sexual act is acquired or lifelong and whether it is generalized ( complete ) or situational .
Vaginal dryness is sometimes seen in Sjögren 's syndrome , an autoimmune disorder which characteristically attacks the exocrine glands that produce saliva and tears .	Dryness in the vagina can also be a cause of painful sexual act for women with Sjögren 's syndrome , which attacks the glands that create saliva and tears .
In otherwise healthy people , some scientific evidence indicates that multivitamin supplements do not prevent cancer , heart disease , or other ailments .	There is scientific evidence that for healthy people , multivitamin do not provide protection from cancer , heart disease or other serious diseases .
To tea bag is a slang term for the sexual act of a man placing his scrotum in the mouth of a willing sexual partner for pleasure or onto the face or head of another person .	Tea bag is a slang term for a sexual act in which the male puts his scrotum into his partner 's mouth over and over , like a tea bag being put into a cup of hot water .
In vertebrates , acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction , where signals are transmitted between neurons from the central nervous systems to muscle fibers .	In vertebrates , acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction , where signals are transmitted between neurons from the central nervous system to muscle fibers .
A build-up of acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft , due to the inhibition of cholinesterase , means the neurotransmitter continues to act on the muscle fiber , so that any nerve impulses are effectively continually transmitted .	Inhibition of cholinesterase means the neurotransmitter continues to act on the muscle fiber .
The adaptationist approach is steadily increasing as an influence in the general field of psychology .	The adaptationist approach is steadily increasing as an influence in the general field of psychology .
In common speech , ` vaccination ' and ` immunization ' have a similar meaning .	So vaccination and immunization have meanings that are a little different .
Technology transfer from his Harvard laboratory of automated sequencing & software to Genome Therapeutics Corp. resulted in the first bacterial genome sequence and first commercial genome ( the human pathogen Helicobacter pylori ) in 1994 .	Automated sequencing & software in Genome Therapeutics Corp. gave the first commercial genome sequence , ( the human pathogen , Helicobacter pylori ) in 1994 .
After episodes of `` consumption '' ( tuberculosis ) , Eliza died on January 15 , 1876 , at the of age 65 in Greeneville , Tennessee .	After episodes of `` consumption '' ( tuberculosis ) , Eliza died on January 15 , 1876 , at the of age 65 in Greeneville , Tennessee .
In April 2013 , Van Dyke revealed that for seven years he had been experiencing symptoms of a neurological disorder , in which he felt a pounding in his head whenever he lay down ; but despite his undergoing tests , no diagnosis had been made .	In April 2013 , Van Dyke revealed that he has been displaying symptoms of a neurological disorder since 2006 , but despite undergoing tests no diagnosis has been made .
DSM-IV Codes are the classification found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , 4th Edition , Text Revision , also known as DSM-IV-TR , a manual published by the American Psychiatric Association ( APA ) that includes all currently recognized mental health disorders .	The DSM-IV is the most recent version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) .
After overcoming childhood arthritis , he was selected third overall in the 2003 Quebec Major Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ) draft and played for the Val-d'Or Foreurs , Moncton Wildcats , and Cape Breton Screaming Eagles , spending four seasons in the QMJHL .	After having childhood arthritis , he was selected third overall in the 2003 Quebec Major Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ) draft and played for the Val-d'Or Foreurs , Moncton Wildcats , and Cape Breton Screaming Eagles , playing four seasons in the QMJHL .
It is a method for influencing one 's autonomic nervous system .	It is a method for influencing one 's autonomic nervous system .
Autogenic Training is contraindicated for people with heart conditions or psychotic disorders .	Autogenic Training is counter-indicated , or needs to be adapted , for a series of conditions including : heart problems such as myocardial infarction , diabetes , psychotic conditions such as schizophrenia , glaucoma , alcohol or drug abuse , epilepsy .
These include altered heart sounds , such as a widely split S2 or second heart sound , a loud P2 or pulmonic valve closure sound ( part of the second heart sound ) , ( para ) sternal heave , possible S3 or third heart sound , and pulmonary regurgitation .	These include altered heart sounds , such as a widely split S2 or second heart sound , a loud P2 or pulmonic valve closure sound ( part of the second heart sound ) , ( para ) sternal heave , possible S3 or third heart sound , and pulmonary regurgitation .
Further procedures are required to confirm the presence of pulmonary hypertension and exclude other possible diagnoses .	Further procedures are required to confirm the presence of pulmonary hypertension and exclude other possible diagnoses .
A Swan-Ganz catheter can also measure the cardiac output , which is far more important in measuring disease severity than the pulmonary arterial pressure .	A Swan-Ganz catheter can also measure the cardiac output , which is far more important in measuring disease severity than the pulmonary arterial pressure .
The revised system developed by this group provides the current framework for understanding pulmonary hypertension .	The revised system developed by this group provides the current framework for understanding pulmonary hypertension .
Many pathways are involved in the abnormal proliferation and contraction of the smooth muscle cells of the pulmonary arteries in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension .	Three major pathways are involved in abnormal proliferation and contraction of the smooth-muscle cells of the pulmonary artery in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension .
This delivery system can cause sepsis and thrombosis .	This delivery system can cause sepsis and thrombosis .
A physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension .	A physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension .
Diagnosis of PAH requires the presence of pulmonary hypertension .	Diagnosis of PAH requires the presence of pulmonary hypertension with two other conditions .
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure .	Depending on the cause , pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and right-sided heart failure .
A detailed family history is established to determine whether the disease might be familial .	A detailed family history is taken to determine whether the disease might be familial .
A physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension , including a loud S2 ( pulmonic valve closure sound ) , ( para ) sternal heave , jugular venous distension , pedal edema , ascites , hepatojugular reflux , clubbing etc. .	Physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension including a loud P2 ( pulmonic valve closure sound ) , ( para ) sternal heave , jugular venous distension , pedal edema , ascites , hepatojugular reflux , clubbing etc. .
These generally include pulmonary function tests ; blood tests to exclude HIV , autoimmune diseases , and liver disease ; electrocardiography ( ECG ) ; arterial blood gas measurements ; X-rays of the chest ( followed by high-resolution CT scanning if interstitial lung disease is suspected ) ; and ventilation-perfusion or V\/Q scanning to exclude chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension .	These generally include pulmonary function tests , blood tests , electrocardiography ( ECG ) , arterial blood gas measurements , X-rays of the chest ( followed by high-resolution CT scanning if interstitial lung disease is suspected ) , and ventilation-perfusion or V\/Q scanning to exclude chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension .
Because pulmonary hypertension can be of five major types , a series of tests must be performed to distinguish pulmonary arterial hypertension from venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic , or miscellaneous varieties .	Because pulmonary hypertension can be of 5 major types , a series of tests must be performed to distinguish pulmonary arterial hypertension from venous , hypoxic , thomboembolic , or miscellaneous varieties .
A history of exposure to drugs such as cocaine , methamphetamine , alcohol leading to cirrhosis , and tobacco leading to emphysema are considered significant .	A history of exposure to cocaine , methamphetamine , alcohol leading to cirrhosis , and smoking leading to emphysema are considered significant .
Pulmonary hypertension is present when mean pulmonary artery pressure exceeds 25 mm Hg ( 3300 Pa ) at rest .	Definite pulmonary hypertension is present when mean pressures at rest exceed 25 mm Hg ( 3300 Pa ) .
Three of these pathways are important since they have been targeted with drugs - endothelin receptor antagonists , phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE-5 ) inhibitors , and prostacyclin derivatives .	These pathways correspond to important therapeutic targets in this condition and play a role in determining which of three classes of drugs - endothelin receptor antagonists , phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors , and prostacyclin derivatives - will be used .
Biopsy of the lung is usually not indicated unless the pulmonary hypertension is thought to be due to an underlying interstitial lung disease ; further , lung biopsies are fraught with risks of bleeding due to the high intrapulmonary blood pressure .	Biopsy of the lung is usually not indicated unless the pulmonary hypertension is thought to be due to an underlying interstitial lung disease .
PAOP ( pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ) and PVR ( pulmonary vascular resistance ) can not be measured directly with echocardiography .	PAOP and PVR can not be measured directly with echocardiography .
A second conference in 1998 at Évian-les-Bains also addressed the causes of secondary PH ( i.e. those due to other medical conditions ) , and in 2008 , the 4th World Symposium on Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension was convened in Dana Point to modify the classification based on new understandings of disease mechanisms .	In 2003 , the 3rd World Symposium on Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension was convened in Venice to modify the classification based on the new understanding of disease mechanisms .
In addition , the increased workload of the heart causes hypertrophy of the right ventricle , making the heart less able to pump blood through the lungs , ultimately causing right heart failure ( a condition known as cor pulmonale ) .	In addition , the increased workload of the heart causes thickening and enlargement of the right ventricle , making the heart less able to pump blood through the lungs , causing right heart failure .
The Dana Point 2008 Updated Clinical Classification system can be summarized as follows : Whatever the initial cause , pulmonary arterial hypertension ( WHO Group I ) involves the vasoconstriction or tightening of blood vessels connected to and within the lungs .	Whatever the initial cause , pulmonary hypertension involves the tightening of blood vessels connected to and within the lungs .
Pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein , or pulmonary capillaries , together known as the lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath , dizziness , fainting , leg swelling and other symptoms .	In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase in blood pressure in the pulmonary artery or lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath , dizziness , fainting , and other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
This further increases the blood pressure within the lungs and impairs their blood flow .	Over time , the affected blood vessels become both stiffer and thicker , further increasing the blood pressure within the lungs and impairing blood flow .
Pulmonary venous hypertension typically presents with shortness of breath while lying flat or sleeping ( orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea ) , while pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) typically does not .	Many illnesses can cause pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) .
Anton-Babinski syndrome is a rare symptom of brain damage occurring in the occipital lobe .	Anton-Babinski syndrome is a problem that comes from some types of brain damage .
Leukemia can affect people at any age .	Leukemia can also affect two different types of white blood cells .
Some leukemia patients do not have high white blood cell counts visible during a regular blood count .	When a person has leukemia , the body makes too many white blood cells ( leukocytes ) .
For example , people with Down syndrome have a significantly increased risk of developing forms of acute leukemia ( especially acute myeloid leukemia ) , and Fanconi anemia is a risk factor for developing acute myeloid leukemia .	Researchers believe that some things may influence whether a person develops leukemia : Viruses that are believed to cause leukemia include : Fanconi anemia is also a risk factor for developing acute myelogenous leukemia .
Warburton arrived in a starved condition and blind in one eye .	When Warburton arrived , he was starving and blind in one eye .
Laboratory rats have also proved valuable in psychological studies of learning and other mental processes ( Barnett , 2002 ) , as well as to understand group behavior and overcrowding ( with the work of John B. Calhoun on behavioral sink ) .	Laboratory rats have also proved valuable in psychological studies of learning and other mental processes ( Barnett , 2002 ) .
In 1895 , Clark University in Worcester , Massachusetts ( United States ) established a population of domestic albino brown rats to study the effects of diet and for other physiological studies .	Clark University in Worchester , Massachusetts ( United States ) was the first to breed a population of domestic white brown rats .
A study published in 1997 found an inverse association between death from coronary heart disease and frequency of orgasm even given the risk that myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction can be triggered by sexual activity .	A study published in 1997 found an inverse association between death from coronary heart disease and frequency of orgasm even given the risk that myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction can be triggered by sexual activity .
Masturbation with a partner can also theoretically result in transmission of sexually transmitted diseases by contact with bodily fluids .	Masturbation with a partner can also theoretically result in transmission of sexually transmitted diseases by contact with bodily fluids .
Semen is valued and masturbation is seen as a waste of semen and is therefore frowned upon even though frequent ejaculation is encouraged .	Semen is valued and masturbation is seen as a waste of semen and is therefore frowned upon even though frequent ejaculation is encouraged .
In this and other tribes , the measure of manhood is actually associated more with the amount of ejaculate and his need than penis size .	In this and other tribes , the measure of manhood is actually associated more with the amount of ejaculate and his need than penis size .
In these cases , any energetic manipulation of the penis can be problematic .	In these cases , any energetic manipulation of the penis can be problematic .
A man whose penis has suffered a blunt trauma , severe bend or other injury during intercourse or masturbation may , rarely , sustain a penile fracture or suffer from Peyronie 's disease .	A man whose penis has suffered a blunt trauma or injury during intercourse may rarely sustain a penile fracture or suffer from Peyronie 's disease .
Though research is still as yet scant , those suffering from cardiovascular disorders ( particularly those recovering from myocardial infarction , or heart attacks ) should resume physical activity ( including sexual intercourse and masturbation ) gradually and with the frequency and rigor which their physical status will allow .	And while doctors have no proof of this actually being true , those suffering from cardiovascular disorders ( particularly those recovering from myocardial infarction , or heart attacks ) should resume physical activity ( including sexual intercourse and masturbation ) gradually and with the frequency and rigor which their physical status will allow .
The capacity and need to ejaculate is developed or nurtured for years from an early age but through fellatio so that it can be consumed rather than wasted .	The capacity and need to ejaculate is nurtured for years from an early age through fellatio so that it can be consumed rather than wasted .
Masturbation is also seen as a sexual technique that protects individuals from the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases .	This is consistent with a 2003 Australia article on the benefits against prostate cancer Some people actually use masturbation as part of their cardiovascular workout and for stress relief Masturbation is also seen as a sexual technique that protects individuals from the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases .
The study also indicated that increased ejaculation through masturbation rather than intercourse would be more helpful as intercourse is associated with diseases ( STDs ) that may increase the risk of cancer instead .	The study also indicated that this would be more helpful than ejaculation through sexual intercourse because intercourse can transmit diseases that may increase the risk of cancer instead .
In 2003 , an Australian research team led by Graham Giles of The Cancer Council Australia found that males masturbating frequently had a lower probability to develop prostate cancer .	In 2003 , an Australian research team led by Graham Giles of The Cancer Council Australia concluded that frequent masturbation by males appears to help prevent the development of prostate cancer .
The most common male masturbation technique is simply to hold the penis with a loose fist and then to move the hand up and down the shaft .	Usually the man will hold the penis ( in erection ) in his hand and move the hand up and down .
Since the germ theory of disease , cleanliness has come to mean an effort to remove germs and other hazardous materials .	Since the germ theory of disease , it has also come to mean an absence of germs and other waste .
Although previously believed that clinically active pituitary adenomas were rare , recent studies have suggested that they may affect approximately one in 1000 of the general population .	It used to be thought that clinically active pituitary adenomas were rare but recent studies have suggested that they may affect about one in 1000 of the general population .
Pituitary adenomas are noncancerous tumors that occur in the pituitary gland .	Pituitary adenomas are tumors that occur in the pituitary gland .
Pituitary adenomas represent from 10 % to 25 % of all intracranial neoplasms and the estimated prevalence rate in the general population is approximately 17 % .	Pituitary adenomas represent from 10 % to 25 % of all brain tumors and is thought to happen in about 17 % to 25 % of most people .
Pituitary adenomas are generally divided into three categories dependent upon their biological functioning : benign adenoma , invasive adenoma , or carcinomas , with carcinomas accounting for 0.1 % to 0.2 % , approximately 35 % being invasive adenomas and most being benign adenomas .	Pituitary tumors are generally divided into three kinds dependant upon their biological functioning : benign adenoma , invasive adenoma or carcinomas , with carcinomas accounting for 0.1 % to 0.2 % , appoximately 35 % being invasive adenomas and most being benign adenomas .
Non-invasive and non-secreting pituitary adenomas are considered to be benign in the literal as well as the clinical sense ; however a recent meta-analysis ( Fernández-Balsells , et al. 2011 ) of available research has shown there are to date scant studies - of poor quality - to either support or refute this assumption .	Non-invasive and non-secreting pituitary adenomas are considered to be benign ( harmless ) ; but a recent large study ( Fernández-Balsells , et al. 2011 ) has shown there are few studies to prove if this is true or not .
A majority of pituitary microadenomas often remain undiagnosed and those that are diagnosed are often found as an incidental finding , and are referred to as incidentalomas .	Most pituitary microadenomas often remain undiagnosed and those that are diagnosed are often found as an incidental finding ( which means found by chance ) , and are called incidentalomas .
In addition , some DNA polymerases also have proofreading ability ; they can remove nucleotides from the end of a growing strand in order to correct mismatched bases .	Even so , some DNA polymerases also have ` proofreading ' ability : they can remove nucleotides from the end of a strand in order to correct mismatched bases .
This type of color blindness is usually a sex-linked condition .	It is different from the other types of color blindness because it is not linked to sex .
Color blindness can also be produced by physical or chemical damage to the eye , the optic nerve , or parts of the brain .	Color blindness can therefore also result if these areas of the brain , the optic nerve or the retina have been damaged .
Two of the most common inherited forms of color blindness are protanopia , and deuteranopia .	There are two main types of total color blindness : There are two kinds of red-green color blindness : protanopia or deuteranopia .
The typical human retina contains two kinds of light cells : the rod cells ( active in low light ) and the cone cells ( active in normal daylight ) .	The retina has two types of cells : Rod cells and Cone cells .
The English chemist John Dalton published the first scientific paper on this subject in 1798 , `` Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colors '' , after the realization of his own color blindness .	The English chemist John Dalton published the first scientific article about color blindness in 1798 , after he found out that he suffered from color blindness himself .
Because of Dalton 's work , the general condition has been called daltonism , although in English this term is now used more narrowly for deuteranopia alone .	Because of this , the condition is sometimes called daltonism .
There is no actual blindness but there is a deficiency of color vision .	That way it is possible that only a part of the visual field is affected by color blindness , but in the rest , there is no color blindness .
In individuals with Northern European ancestry , as many as 8 percent of men and 0.5 percent of women experience the common form of red-green color blindness .	Deuteranopia is the most common form of color blindness , between five and ten percent of males suffer from it .
Other forms of color blindness are much more rare .	Although the name is Blue-yellow color blindness ( tritanopia ) , people affected by this type of color blindness can usually tell the difference between blue and yellow .
Color blindness can be inherited .	Most color blindness is permanent , but some conditions can also lead to temporary color blindness .
Hypothermia ( from Greek ὑποθερμία ) is a condition in which the body 's core temperature drops below that required for normal metabolism and body functions .	Hypothermia is a condition when a person is so cold that the body temperature drops below normal .
In his Nobel lecture , Lewis said `` Ultimately , comparisons of the ( control complexes ) throughout the animal kingdom should provide a picture of how the organisms , as well as the ( control genes ) have evolved . ''	In his Nobel Prize lecture , E.B. Lewis said `` Ultimately , comparisons of the ( control complexes ) throughout the animal kingdom should provide a picture of how the organisms , as well as the ( control genes ) have evolved '' .
Carbapenems are one of the antibiotics of last resort for many bacterial infections , such as Escherichia coli ( E. coli ) and Klebsiella pneumoniae .	Carbapenems are one of the `` antibiotics of last resort '' for many bacterial infections , such as Escherichia coli ( E. coli ) and Klebsiella pneumoniae .
Acephalgic migraines can occur in individuals of any age .	Unlike other migraines , males have Acephalgic migraines more often then women do .
Levamisole has been used in humans to treat parasitic worm infections , and has been studied in combination with other forms of chemotherapy for colon cancer , melanoma , and head and neck cancer .	Levamisole is a drug that was used to treat infections with parasitic worms , and for some forms of chemotherapy , to treat cancer .
Dörflein died of a heart attack on 22 September 2008 .	Dörflein died of a heart attack on 22 September 2008 .
He was re‑elected in 1987 but died of a heart attack a short time later .	He was later re-elected , but died of a heart attack .
He died of tuberculosis in 1621 .	He died of tuberculosis in 1621 .
Fluorapatite ( or fluoroapatite ) is more resistant to acid attack than is hydroxyapatite ; in the mid-20th century , it was discovered that communities whose water supply naturally contained fluorine had lower rates of dental caries .	In the mid-20th century it was discovered that communities whose water supply naturally contained fluorine had lower rates of dental caries .
One main exception to this is when , in rare cases , a male has XXY chromosomes ( see Klinefelter 's syndrome ) , in which case the male could have tortoiseshell or calico markings .	It is possible for a male cat to be a calico if it has Klinefelter 's syndrome , where it has two X chromosomes and one Y chromosome , though not all cats with Klinefelter 's syndrome are calico .
Saskia died in 1642 soon after Titus 's birth , probably from tuberculosis .	Saskia died in 1642 soon after Titus 's birth , probably from tuberculosis .
Piedmont died in Turin on 22 March 1715 having caught smallpox .	Piedmont died in Turin on 22 March 1715 having caught smallpox .
He died of smallpox at the age of 15 .	He died of smallpox at the age of 15 .
The new name for L-hexuronic acid is derived from a - ( meaning `` no '' ) and scorbutus ( scurvy ) , the disease caused by a deficiency of vitamin C. Because it is derived from glucose , many animals are able to produce it , but humans require it as part of their nutrition .	Ascorbic acid is one form of vitamin C , and was historically the first chemical compound to be synthesized , and identified , as vitamin C. The name is derived from a - ( meaning `` no '' ) and scorbutus ( scurvy ) , the disease caused by a deficiency of vitamin C.
The plans failed when the French forces were struck by an epidemic which , on 25 August , took the life of King Louis himself .	The French forces were struck by an epidemic which , on 25 August , took the life of King Louis himself .
In 1916 Nicolae Paulescu , a Romanian professor of physiology at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Bucharest , developed an aqueous pancreatic extract which , when injected into a diabetic dog , had a normalizing effect on blood-sugar levels .	Nicolae Paulescu , a Romanian professor of physiology at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Bucharest , was the first to isolate insulin , in 1916 , which he called at that time , pancrein , by developing an aqueous pancreatic extract which , when injected into a diabetic dog , proved to have a normalizing effect on blood sugar levels .
Later that year , he published `` Research on the Role of the Pancreas in Food Assimilation '' .	Later that year , he detailed his work by publishing an extensive whitepaper on the effect of the pancreatic extract injected into a diabetic animal , which he called : `` Research on the Role of the Pancreas in Food Assimilation '' .
One million to three million islets of Langerhans ( pancreatic islets ) form the endocrine part of the pancreas , which is primarily an exocrine gland .	The islets of Langerhans in the pancreas produces insulin .
Insulin from animal sources differs somewhat in `` strength '' ( in carbohydrate metabolism control effects ) from that in humans because of those variations .	Insulin from different animal sources has different effects on the human carbohydrate metabolism process .
Gnonnas Pedro died August 12 , 2004 , age 61 of prostate cancer in a hospital of Cotonou , Benin .	Gnonnas Pedro died August 12 , 2004 , age 61 of prostate cancer in a hospital of Cotonou , Benin .
The bacterium Micrococcus flacidifex danai also infects the larvae and causes `` black death '' .	The bacteria Micrococcus flacidifex danai also infects the caterpillar and causes `` black death '' .
The bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa has no invasive powers , but causes secondary infections in weakened insects .	The bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes infections in weakened insects .
Sigmund Freud ( 6 May 1856 - 23 September 1939 ) is considered to be the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology which looks closely at the unconscious drives that motivate people to act in certain ways .	Sigmund Freud ( 6 May 1856 - 23 September 1939 ) is considered to be the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology which looks closely at the unconscious drives that motivate people to act in certain ways .
Females also experience penis envy which is the parallel reaction to the male experience of castration anxiety .	Females also experience penis envy which is the parallel reaction to the male experience of castration anxiety .
The onset of puberty reflects a strong interest from one person to another of the opposite sex .	The onset of puberty reflects a strong interest from one person to another of the opposite sex .
Females are jealous of their fathers ' penis and wish to have one as well .	Females are jealous of their fathers ' penis and wish to have one as well .
Sulfasalazine , in addition to its use as an antibiotic , is also used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease .	For example , sulfasalazine , in addition to its use as an antibiotic , is also used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease .
The Convention provided that `` The contracting Powers shall use their best endeavors to control , or to cause to be controlled , all persons manufacturing , importing , selling , distributing , and exporting morphine , cocaine , and their respective salts , as well as the buildings in which these persons carry such an industry or trade . ''	The Convention said that `` The contracting Powers shall use their best endeavors to control , or to cause to be controlled , all persons manufacturing , importing , selling , distributing , and exporting morphine , cocaine , and their respective salts , as well as the buildings in which these persons carry such an industry or trade . ''
The United States convened a 13-nation conference of the International Opium Commission in 1909 in Shanghai , China in response to increasing criticism of the opium trade .	The United States organised a conference between 13 countries called the International Opium Commission in 1909 in Shanghai , China because people complained more and more about opium trade .
He also played a role in the discovery of the cold-producing adenoviruses , the hepatitis viruses , and the cancer-causing virus SV40 .	He also played a role in the discovery of the cold-producing adenoviruses , the hepatitis viruses , and the cancer-causing virus SV40 .
Of the 14 vaccines routinely recommended in current vaccine schedules , he developed eight : those for measles , mumps , hepatitis A , hepatitis B , chickenpox , meningitis , pneumonia and Haemophilus influenzae bacteria .	Of the 14 vaccines currently recommended , he developed eight : those for measles , mumps , hepatitis A , hepatitis B , chickenpox , meningitis , pneumonia and Haemophilus influenza bacteria .
At the age of seventeen , he was said to have been over two metres ( 6.6 feet ) tall .	At seventeen , he was over two metres ( 6.6 feet ) tall .
The disease was first described by Weil in 1886 in Germany .	It was first described by Adolf Weil in 1886 .
Human immunodeficiency virus infection \/ acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( HIV\/AIDS ) is a disease of the human immune system caused by infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) .	Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ( AIDS ) is a syndrome caused by a virus called HIV .
Measures to prevent opportunistic infections are effective in many people with HIV\/AIDS .	Many people with HIV do not know they have it .
It was said , that she had a rare quality ; she knew her own limitations .	It was said , that she had a rare quality ; she knew her limitations .
Cave suffered from gout .	Cave suffered from gout .
Boyd died of a heart attack at the age of 45 while playing golf at the Porter Valley Country Club in Northridge , California .	He died of a heart attack while playing golf in California .
The organizations Gay Men 's Health Crisis ( GMHC ) and AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power ( ACT UP ) were founded to advocate on behalf of those stricken with the disease .	Gay Men 's Health Crisis ( GMHC ) and AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power ( ACT UP ) were organizations that were started because of the crisis .
Griffith discovered that a harmless strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae could be made virulent after being exposed to heat-killed virulent strains .	Griffith discovered that a harmless strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae could be made virulent after being exposed to heat-killed virulent strains .
They isolated DNA from a virulent strain of S. pneumoniae and using just this DNA were able to make a harmless strain virulent .	They isolated DNA from a virulent strain of S. pneumoniae and using just this DNA were able to make a harmless strain virulent .
A heavy cigarette smoker , he died in New York City of heart failure complicated by chronic emphysema .	A heavy cigarette smoker , he died in New York City of heart failure complicated by chronic emphysema .
Later , Tatum and his student Joshua Lederberg showed that E. coli could share genetic information through recombination .	Tatum and his student Lederberg showed that Escherichia coli could share genetic information through recombination .
Fecundity can increase or decrease in a population according to current conditions and certain regulating factors .	Fecundity can increase or decrease in a population according to current conditions and certain regulating factors .
In biology , the definition is more equivalent to fertility , or the actual reproductive rate of an organism or population , measured by the number of gametes ( eggs ) , seed set , or asexual propagules .	In biology and demography , fecundity is the ability to reproduce of an organism or population , measured by the number of gametes ( eggs ) , seed set or asexual propagules .
Potassium iodate is sometimes used for iodination of table salt to prevent iodine deficiency .	Potassium iodate is used to add iodine to salt .
In other countries , potassium iodate is used as a source for dietary iodine .	Potassium iodate is a white solid .
Chromatophores are largely responsible for generating skin and eye color in cold-blooded animals and are generated in the neural crest during embryonic development .	They are largely responsible for generating skin and eye color in cold-blooded animals .
But hundreds were arrested in recent years for using marijuana .	Hundreds have now been arrested for using marijuana .
They include a wide variety of pathogens , such as Escherichia , Salmonella , Vibrio , Helicobacter , and many other notable genera .	Proteobacteria include a wide variety of pathogens , such as Escherichia coli , Salmonella , Vibrio , Helicobacter , and many other notable genera .
Involved medical researchers at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center have expressed the opinion that it may be a form of neonatal progeroid syndrome , which at least has spared her healthy bones , organs , and teeth .	Doctors and experts at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center have named it as a Neonatal Progeroid Syndrome ( NPS ) which has allowed her healthy bones , organs and teeth .
Her condition is similar to many other conditions , especially progeria .	Her condition is like some others , especially progeria .
Velazquez has a condition that is so rare that only two other people are known to have it .	Only two other people are known to have the condition she is living with .
Two polio vaccines are used throughout the world to combat poliomyelitis ( or polio ) .	Two polio vaccines are used throughout the world against poliomyelitis ( or polio ) .
Therefore , interruption of person to person transmission of the virus by vaccination is the critical step in global polio eradication .	Therefore , interruption of person to person transmission of the virus by vaccination is the key step in removing polio entirely .
