Because humans perceive the rate of heat transfer from the body rather than temperature itself , we feel warmer when the relative humidity is high than when it is low .	When the humidity is low , the air can be said to be `` not humid '' or `` dry . ''
Creatine has the ability to increase muscle stores of PCr , potentially increasing the muscle 's ability to resynthesize ATP from ADP to meet increased energy demands .	Creatine has two principals effects : body-building ( or increase of muscle ) and increasing the amount of protein synthesis .
The Mayo Clinic states that creatine has been associated with asthmatic symptoms and warns against consumption by persons with known allergies to creatine .	For protein synthesis , it is not entirely known , but creatine can help with the recovery of muscle .
A study , involving 18 vegetarians and 24 non-vegetarians , on the effect of creatine in vegetarians showed that total creatine was significantly lower than in non-vegetarians .	They also take a part of the energy from the production or the absorption of creatine .
O , B , and A stars are sometimes called `` early type ″ , whereas K and M stars are said to be `` late type ″ .	The Sun itself is white , though it is sometimes called a yellow star .
Simon LeVay 's ( 1991 ) examination at autopsy of 18 homosexual men , 1 bisexual man , 16 presumably heterosexual men and 6 presumably heterosexual women found that the INAH 3 nucleus of the anterior hypothalamus of homosexual men was smaller than that of heterosexual men and closer in size of heterosexual women .	A 6 is someone who is only homosexual .
For men , however , high sex drive is associated with increased attraction to one sex or the other , but not to both , depending on sexual orientation .	Where any person fits in this range is referred to as their sexual orientation .
The FDA approves clinical trials of the use of gene therapy on thalassemia major patients in the US .	China was the first country to approve the commercial production of a gene therapy , in 2003 .
These studies , which used adeno-associated virus , have spawned a number of new studies investigating gene therapy for human retinal disease .	Sold under the brand name Gendicine , the world 's first commercial gene therapy also uses a virus to insert the gene into the human genome .
Generally , efforts have focused on administering a gene that causes a protein to be expressed , that the patient directly needs .	Up to now , the only way to manage the condition is to have a very low-fat diet .
He died after suffering cardiac arrest while on the pitch playing for Motherwell against Dundee United on 29 December 2007 .	He died from a cardiac arrest after collapsing on the pitch on 29 December 2007 .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) - also referred to as motor neurone disease ( MND ) in most Commonwealth countries and as Lou Gehrig 's disease in the United States-is a debilitating disease with varied etiology characterized by rapidly progressive weakness , muscle atrophy , muscle spasticity , difficulty speaking ( dysarthria ) , difficulty swallowing ( dysphagia ) , and difficulty breathing ( dyspnea ) .	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS , sometimes called Lou Gehrig 's disease or motor neurone disease ) is a chronic , progressive , almost always fatal neurological disease .
Most people with ALS die of respiratory failure or pneumonia .	That is , people with ALS can no longer move , but their heart still beats .
Other symptoms include difficulty swallowing and loss of tongue mobility .	Difficulty swallowing , and loss of tongue movement follow .
Individuals affected by the disorder may ultimately lose the ability to initiate and control all voluntary movement , although bladder and bowel sphincters and the muscles responsible for eye movement are usually , but not always , spared until the final stages of the disease .	Eventually , the ability of the brain to start and control voluntary movement is lost .
In later stages of the disease , aspiration pneumonia can develop , and maintaining a healthy weight can become a significant problem that may require the insertion of a feeding tube .	However , even patients in later stages of the disease may still have the same intelligence , memory , and personality they had before it started .
Foot-and-mouth disease ( FMD ) has severe implications for animal farming , since it is highly infectious and can be spread by infected animals through aerosols , through contact with contaminated farming equipment , vehicles , clothing , or feed , and by domestic and wild predators .	Foot-and-mouth disease ( FMD ) is one of the acute infectious diseases ( highly contagious disease ) of animals .
The incubation period for foot-and-mouth disease virus has a range between two and 12 days .	Signs of illness can appear after an incubation period ( the time from the moment of exposure to an infectious agent until signs and symptoms of the disease appear ) of one to eight days , but often develop within three days .
New Zealand has never had a case of foot-and-mouth disease .	The most obvious signs of Foot and Mouth Disease are excessive slobbering ( letting liquid fall from their mouth ) , a lack of appetite and lameness ( unable to walk properly because of damage to one or both of their legs ) .
Oral stimulation of the scrotum may also be termed fellatio or tea bagging , while oral sex performed on a female is cunnilingus .	Fellatio is oral sex performed on the penis .
Fellatio ( also known as fellation , and colloquially blowjob , BJ , giving head , or sucking off ) is an oral sex act , involving the use of the mouth or throat , performed by a person on the penis of another person or oneself ( autofellatio ) .	Fellatio is often called a blow job .
Fellatio alone can not result in pregnancy , as there is no way for ingested sperm from the penis to enter the uterus and fallopian tubes to fertilize an egg .	There is no risk of getting pregnant by performing a fellatio , because there is no connection from the mouth to the womb and the fallopian tubes .
Fellatio may also include the oral stimulation of the scrotum , whether licking , sucking or taking the entire scrotum into the mouth .	Cunnilingus is oral sex performed on the vulva .
Women 's fertility peaks in the early 20s , and drops considerably after age 35 .	Women 's fertility peaks between ages 22-26 , and after 35 it starts to sharply decline .
However , an even larger difference is seen in how many of the seminiferous tubules in the testes contain mature sperm ; Research shows increased risks for health problems for children of older fathers .	Even larger change can be seen in number of seminiferous tubules produced by males on different age stages : Infertility is a state where at least one of the partners can not have children .
While fertility can be measured , fecundity can not be .	Fertility can also be used as a metaphor : having a `` fertile imagination '' means being able to think of many new and interesting things .
Evidence shows that increased male age is associated with a decline in semen volume , sperm motility , and sperm morphology .	There is evidence that males reproduction abilities are reduced with higher age .
In demographic contexts , fertility refers to the actual production of offspring , rather than the physical capability to produce which is termed fecundity .	More precisely , fertility is the capacity of an individual or population to produce viable offspring .
Vezina collapsed during a game in 1925 and was diagnosed as having tuberculosis , of which he died in 1926 .	Vezina felt sick during a game in 1925 because he had tuberculosis .
Throughout the two series , the plot centres on the ambiguity concerning Tyler 's predicament of it being unclear to both the audience and the character whether he has died , gone mad or into a coma , or has actually traveled back in time .	It is unclear whether he is insane , in a coma , or if he really has traveled back in time .
Previous systemic reactions , which are anything more than a local reaction around the site of the sting , are a risk factor for future anaphylaxis ; however , half of fatalities have had no previous systemic reaction .	If a person had a reaction to venom in the past , and it was more than a local reaction around the site of the sting , they have a greater risk for anaphylaxis in the future .
The coronary spasm is related to the presence of histamine-releasing cells in the heart .	The heart 's blood vessels may contract suddenly ( coronary artery spasm ) because of the release of histamine from certain cells in the heart .
Symptoms typically include generalized hives , itchiness , flushing , or swelling ( angioedema ) of the afflicted tissues .	Symptoms typically include raised bumps on the skin ( hives ) , itchiness , red face or skin ( flushing ) , or swollen lips .
Asthma however typically does not entail itching or gastrointestinal symptoms , syncope presents with pallor rather than a rash , and a panic attack may have flushing but does not have hives .	A person who is having a panic attack may have flushed skin but does not have hives .
Coronary artery spasm may occur with subsequent myocardial infarction , dysrhythmia , or cardiac arrest .	This interrupts the blood flow to the heart , which may cause heart cells to die ( myocardial infarction ) , or the heart may beat too slowly or too quickly ( cardiac dysrhythmia ) , or the heart may stop beating altogether ( cardiac arrest ) .
Nebulized salbutamol may be effective for bronchospasm that does not resolve with epinephrine .	Salbutamol that is given through a breathing device ( nebulizer ) may be effective when epinephrine does not relieve bronchospasm symptoms .
Those with mastocytosis or of a higher socioeconomic status are at increased risk .	People who have disorders caused by too many mast cells in their tissues ( mastocytosis ) or who are wealthier are at increased risk .
The intramuscular route is preferred over subcutaneous administration because the latter may have delayed absorption .	Injection into the muscle ( intramuscular administration ) is preferred over injection under the skin ( subcutaneous administration ) , where the medication may be absorbed too slowly .
A drop in blood pressure or shock ( either distributive or cardiogenic ) may cause the feeling of lightheadedness or loss of consciousness .	This low blood pressure may be caused by the widening of blood vessels ( distributive shock ) or by a failure of the heart 's ventricles ( cardiogenic shock ) .
In a person who died from anaphylaxis , autopsy may show an `` empty heart '' attributed to reduced venous return from vasodilation and redistribution of intravascular volume from the central to the peripheral compartment .	More than 90 % of children who die from anaphylaxis have asthma .
The band formed from the remaining members of the Epileptics ( who later changed their name to Epi-X due to letters of complaint from The British Epilepsy Association ) by Colin Latter ( vocals ) and Derek Birkett ( bass guitar ) with guitarists Andy Smith , Neil Puncher , and drummer Sid Ation ( who was also a member of Rubella Ballet ) .	The band was originally called the Epileptics and later changed their name to Epi-X after complaints from the British Epilepsy Association .
These are encoded by the hippocampus , entorhinal cortex , and perirhinal cortex , but consolidated and stored elsewhere .	These are partly encoded by the hippocampus , stored elsewhere .
Traumatic pneumothorax most commonly occurs when the chest wall is pierced , such as when a stab wound or gunshot wound allows air to enter the pleural space , or because some other mechanical injury to the lung compromises the integrity of the involved structures .	Open pneumothorax is when air gets into the pleural space from an injury to the chest .
11.5 % of people with a spontaneous pneumothorax have a family member who has previously experienced a pneumothorax .	The most common cause of closed pneumothorax is called spontaneous pneumothorax .
The size of the pneumothorax ( i.e. the volume of air in the pleural space ) can be determined with a reasonable degree of accuracy by measuring the distance between the chest wall and the lung .	Pneumothorax ( sometimes called `` collapsed lung '' ) is a health problem where air or gas is in the pleural space ( the potential between the lungs ) .
Secondary spontaneous pneumothorax occurs in the setting of a variety of lung diseases .	There are two main types of pneumothorax .
Generally , these conditions cause other signs and symptoms as well , and pneumothorax is not usually the primary finding .	These are a closed pneumothorax , and an open pneumothorax .
Traumatic pneumothorax may also be observed in those exposed to blasts , even though there is no apparent injury to the chest .	Closed pneumothorax is when air or gas gets in the pleural space without any outside wound .
Tension pneumothorax may also occur in someone who is receiving mechanical ventilation , in which case it may be difficult to spot as the person is typically receiving sedation ; it is often noted because of a sudden deterioration in condition .	If the lung collapses , a person will have dyspnea ( or a hard time breathing ) .
Not long after the end of the trial Thorpe was found to have Parkinson 's disease and retired from public life .	Thorpe has been diagnosed with Parkinson 's disease .
This causes the old skin to separate from the new skin beneath it .	This causes the skin , which is already stretched , to split open .
19 of its bones were broken or showed signs of infection , which may have contributed to `` Big Al 's '' death .	Allosaurus appeared in the second episode of the 1999 BBC television series Walking with Dinosaurs and the follow-up special The Ballad of Big Al , which speculated on the life of the ` Big Al ' specimen , as revealed by the numerous injuries and pathologies in its skeleton .
Simple sugars are called monosaccharides and include glucose ( also known as dextrose ) , fructose and galactose .	Regular sugar ( the one commonly added to food ) is called sucrose .
Studies are suggesting that the impact of refined carbohydrates or high glycemic load carbohydrates are more significant than the impact of saturated fatty acids on cardiovascular disease .	Carbohydrates can be simple carbohydrates or complex carbohydrates .
In general , galactose does not occur in the free state but is a constituent with glucose of the disaccharide lactose or milk sugar .	Glucose is the more common of these smaller sugars .
Bacteria are a common cause of foodborne illness .	Foodborne illness due to campylobacter , yersinia , salmonella or shigella infection is a major cause of reactive arthritis , which typically occurs 1-3 weeks after diarrheal illness .
Enterotoxins can produce illness even when the microbes that produced them have been killed .	Food intoxication is when the food contains toxins , including bacterially produced exotoxins , which can happen even when the microbe that produced the toxin is no longer present or able to cause infection .
Foodborne illness ( also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning ) is any illness resulting from the consumption of contaminated food , pathogenic bacteria , viruses , or parasites that contaminate food , as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms .	Even though it is commonly called `` food poisoning '' , most cases are caused by a variety of pathogenic bacteria , viruses , prions or parasites that contaminate food , rather than chemical or natural toxins which are what we usually call poison .
This regulation includes : In August 2006 , the United States Food and Drug Administration approved Phage therapy which involves spraying meat with viruses that infect bacteria , and thus preventing infection .	Food infection is when the food contains bacteria or other microbes which infect the body after it is eaten .
Foodborne disease can also be caused by a large variety of toxins that affect the environment .	Foodborne illnesses can result in permanent health problems or even death , especially for people at high risk , including babies , young children , pregnant women ( and their fetuses ) , elderly people , sick people and others with weak immune systems .
As a result symptoms associated with intoxication are usually not seen until 12-72 hours or more after eating contaminated food .	Food poisoning is when someone gets sick from eating food or drink that has gone bad or is contaminated .
Symptoms often include vomiting , fever , and aches , and may include diarrhea .	Depending on what the cause of the poisoning was , they can include one or more of the following : nausea , abdominal pain , vomiting , diarrhoea , gastroenteritis , fever , pain in the head or fatigue .
Anne Anastasi ( December 19 , 1908 - May 4 , 2001 ) was an American psychologist best known for her pioneering development of psychometrics .	User : Bittersw33t User : Kev4Lakers Anne Anastasi ( December 19th 1908-May 4th 2001 ) is one of the founders of American Psychology and contributed to Psychometrics .
Cantaloupe melons are an excellent source of vitamin A and vitamin C , and a good source of potassium .	In 1513 , a Spanish writer said of the muskmelon that `` the good ( muskmelons ) are like good women , and the bad like bad women . ''
Studies have been done to show that itch receptors are found only on the top two skin layers , the epidermis and the epidermal\/dermal transition layers .	Often , however , scratching can intensify itching and even cause further damage to the skin , dubbed the `` itch-scratch-itch cycle '' .
Itch in contrast creates a scratch reflex , which draws one to the affected skin site .	Sometimes scratching relieves isolated itches , hence the existence of devices such as the back scratcher .
At Stanley 's birth , the Kubricks lived in an apartment at 2160 Clinton Avenue in The Bronx .	Stanley Kubrick died from a heart attack on March 7 , 1999 .
The ancient Jewish sage Hillel the Elder is said to have wrapped meat from the Paschal lamb and bitter herbs between two pieces of old-fashioned soft matzah-flat , unleavened bread-during Passover in the manner of a modern sandwich wrap made with flatbread .	These include : Eggs ( Egg Sandwich ) Ham ( Ham Sandwich ) Ground beef ( Burger ) Cheese ( Cheese Sandwich ) Chicken ( Chicken Sandwich ) Cucumber ( Cucumber Sandwich ) Ice cream ( Ice cream sandwich ) Standard Sandwich Bread ) Filling ) Bread Double Decker Bread ) Filling A ) Bread ) Filling B ) Bread Triple Decker Bread ) Filling A ) Bread ) Filling B ) Bread ) Filling C ) Bread n Decker Bread ) Filling 1 ) Bread ... Filling n ) Bread In one episode of The Apprentice , the apprentices were required to make sandwiches for Donald Trump .
Piet Mondrian died of pneumonia on February 1 , 1944 and was interred in the Cypress Hills Cemetery in Brooklyn , New York .	Piet Mondrian ( 7 March 1872 - 1 February 1944 ) was a Dutch modern artist of the De stijl group .
In June 2006 , he was diagnosed with terminal prostate cancer , which metastasised to his spine and ribs .	He died of prostate cancer in London .
The sociology of science involves the study of science as a social activity , especially dealing `` with the social conditions and effects of science , and with the social structures and processes of scientific activity . ''	It also studies the breakdown of social structures ; crime and divorce .
Because bananas and plantains produce fruit year-round , they provide an extremely valuable food source during the hunger season ( when the food from one annual\/semi-annual harvest has been consumed , and the next is still to come ) .	Almost all bananas grown to be eaten have seedless fruits .
Banana chips are a snack produced from sliced dehydrated or fried banana or plantain , which have a dark brown color and an intense banana taste .	Bananas may also be cut and dried and eaten as a type of chip .
Internal bleeding is common in people with severe hemophilia and some individuals with moderate hemophilia .	Haemophilia is a blood condition that means bleeding does not stop .
Due to differences in changes to the genes involved , patients with hemophilia often have some level of active clotting factor .	Most importantly in hemophilia , it is the H gene that is missing .
If a female gives birth to a hemophiliac child , either the female is a carrier for the blood disorder or the hemophilia was the result of a spontaneous mutation .	A person with hemophilia is called a hemophiliac .
Haemophilia ( \/ hiːməˈfɪliə \/ ; also spelled hemophilia in North America , from the Greek haima αἷμα ` blood ' and philia φιλία ` love ' ) is a group of hereditary genetic disorders that impair the body 's ability to control blood clotting or coagulation , which is used to stop bleeding when a blood vessel is broken .	The word comes from the Greek words haima `` blood '' and philia `` to love '' It usually affects males .
Ingestion of oocysts by humans or other warm-blooded animals is one of the common routes of infection .	In humans , it is one of the most common parasites .
Common table breads made from these doughs result in a finely textured , light bread .	It is mainly made from dough , which is made mainly from flour and water .
Partly because of the immemorial worldwide importance of bread as a basic foodstuff , traditionally a food often hard come by , bread has taken on a social and emotional significance beyond its importance in nutrition ; it plays essential roles in religious rituals and secular culture .	In many cultures , bread is so important that it is part of religious rituals .
Betty James died of congestive heart failure in November 2008 , aged 90 , after having served as president of James Industries from 1960 to 1998 .	She was president of the company from 1960 to 1998 .
Hayes died on St. Patrick 's Day ,1993 from congestive heart failure in Nyack , New York .	Helen Hayes died on March 17 , 1993 from heart failure in the hospital of Nyack , New York .
Hayes was hospitalized a number of times for her asthma condition , which was aggravated by stage dust , forcing her to retire from legitimate theater in 1971 , at age 71 .	Helen had to retire from theater because of her asthma condition .
Luke states that Jesus miraculously heals the wound , and John and Matthew report that Jesus criticizes the violent act , enjoining his disciples not to resist his arrest .	Luke 's Gospel tells most of the story .
In evolutionary psychology , the `` ultimate '' , unconscious motivation may be a cold evolutionary calculation , the conscious motivation could be more benign or even positive emotions .	Motivation is an important part of human psychology .
Ten times more soldiers died from illnesses such as typhus , typhoid , cholera and dysentery than from battle wounds .	Florence realized that soldiers died more often from diseases like cholera than from their injuries in war .
After she returned to Britain and began collecting evidence before the Royal Commission on the Health of the Army , she came to believe that most of the soldiers at the hospital were killed by poor living conditions .	While she was training she campaigned for better conditions for poor people in Britain .
The glandular tissue of the breast is biochemically supported with estrogen ; thus , when a woman reaches menopause ( cessation of menstruation ) and her body estrogen levels decrease , the milk gland tissue then atrophies , withers , and disappears , resulting in a breast composed of adipose tissue , superﬁcial fascia , suspensory ligaments , and the skin envelope .	During menopause , as levels of estrogen decrease , tissue in the breasts reduce as well , and the breasts may start sagging .
During pregnancy , the breast is responsive to a complex interplay of hormones that cause tissue development and enlargement in order to produce milk .	Their breasts will usually not produce milk , but might become larger and produce milk during some diseases or with some hormonal medical treatments .
The breast is an apocrine gland that produces milk to feed an infant child ; for which the nipple of the breast is centred in ( surrounded by ) an areola ( nipple-areola complex , NAC ) , the skin color of which varies from pink to dark brown , and has many sebaceous glands .	Ducts carry the milk produced by these glands to the nipples .
The size and the shape of the breasts are influenced by normal-life hormonal changes ( thelarche , menstruation , pregnancy , menopause ) and medical conditions ( e.g. virginal breast hypertrophy ) .	Factors that do influence sagging are the size of the breast ( before the first pregnancy ) , number of pregnancies , body mass index , smoking , and age .
Three such hormones are estrogen , progesterone and prolactin , which cause glandular tissue in the breast and the uterus to change during the menstrual cycle .	Prolactin and oxytocin stimulate milk production .
Public health is `` the science and art of preventing disease , prolonging life and promoting health through the organized efforts and informed choices of society , organizations , public and private , communities and individuals . ''	The aims are achieved through the organized efforts and informed choices of society , public and private organizations , communities and individuals .
This rapid urbanisation exacerbated the spread of disease in the large conurbations that built up around the workhouses and factories .	The industrial revolution initially caused the spread of disease through large conurbations around workhouses and factories .
Leaders were responsible for the health of their subjects to ensure social stability , prosperity , and maintain order .	Governments placed responsibility on leaders to develop public health policies and programs in order to gain some understanding of the causes of disease , ensure social stability prosperity , and maintain order .
For example , research has shown that the simple act of hand washing with soap can prevent many contagious diseases .	The global health system needs to find a way to even out communicable and non communicable diseases .
The focus of a public health intervention is to prevent and manage diseases , injuries and other health conditions through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behaviors , communities and environments .	An important public health issues facing the world currently are HIV\/AIDS , antibiotic resistance , leading to the re-emergence of diseases such as Tuberculosis , diabetes .
In Canada , the Public Health Agency of Canada is the national agency responsible for public health , emergency preparedness and response , and infectious and chronic disease control and prevention .	The focus of public health has moved from individual behaviors and risk factors to population-level issues such as inequality , poverty , and education .
With the onset of the epidemiological transition and as the prevalence of infectious diseases decreased through the 20th century , public health began to put more focus on chronic diseases such as cancer and heart disease .	As non-communicable diseases caused by smoking have been threatening public health , public health started controlling smoking .
It is concerned with threats to health based on population health analysis .	Public health is the science dealing with prevention of a disease that is a threat to the overall health of a community , as well as with prolonging life and promoting health .
The practice of vaccination became prevalent in the 1800s , following the pioneering work of Edward Jenner in treating smallpox with vaccination .	The practice of vaccination did not become prevalent until the 1820s .
A 1998 report found `` no evidence to substantiate the toxic gas hypothesis that antimony - and phosphorus-containing compounds used as fire retardants in PVC and other cot mattress materials are a cause of SIDS .	SIDS is sometimes referred to as cot death or crib death .
Weill suffered a heart attack shortly after his 50th birthday and died on April 3 , 1950 , in New York City .	Weill died of a heart illness in New York City in 1950 .
When consciousness ceases , a living organism can be said to have died .	In medicine , death is when the heart stops beating for more than several minutes .
Four years later William died in the 1918 influenza pandemic .	The family moved to Belfast but in 1918 William died from flu .
Horton died from heart failure in Chicago in 1981 at the age of 60 , and was buried in Restvale Cemetery in Alsip , Illinois .	Big Walter Horton died from heart failure in Chicago in 1981 aged 64 .
Most infections do not have symptoms , known as latent tuberculosis .	If the patient has TB but does not show symptoms , the disease is ` latent ' .
This severe form of TB disease , most common in young children and those with HIV , is called miliary tuberculosis .	It used to be called consumption .
More people in the developing world contract tuberculosis because of a poor immune system , largely due to high rates of HIV infection and the corresponding development of AIDS .	People usually get tuberculosis because of a weakened immune system .
If someone does become infected , it typically takes three to four weeks before the newly infected person becomes infectious enough to transmit the disease to others .	The cell cultures are then analyzed to see if the person is infected with TB .
Antibiotic resistance is a growing problem in multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis ( MDR-TB ) infections .	Tuberculosis , or TB for short , is an infectious disease caused by bacteria .
In 15-20 % of active cases , the infection spreads outside the lungs , causing other kinds of TB .	There is a vaccine against some forms of tuberculosis .
People with prolonged , frequent , or close contact with people with TB are at particularly high risk of becoming infected , with an estimated 22 % infection rate .	Many people with HIV and AIDS can also get tuberculosis .
If TB bacteria gain entry to the bloodstream from an area of damaged tissue , they can spread throughout the body and set up many foci of infection , all appearing as tiny , white tubercles in the tissues .	The bacteria can travel through the air and spread from one person to the next .
An uncle of a pupil who died in the rail accident suffered a heart attack due to the hot weather and later died .	46 people died in the accident .
Other car seats , also known as `` booster seats , '' are required until the child is large enough to use an adult seat belt , This is usually , but not always , when the child is 4 ft 9 in ( 1.45 m ) tall .	In the United Kingdom for example children are allowed to ride without a booster seat when they are 53 inches tall and in Austria children who are not 59 inches tall have to use a booster seat until their 14th birthday .
The terminology of autism can be bewildering , with autism , Asperger syndrome and PDD-NOS often called the autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) or sometimes the autistic disorders , whereas autism itself is often called autistic disorder , childhood autism , or infantile autism .	Parents with an Autistic Spectrum Disorder ( including Asperger Syndrome ) often have children with Asperger Syndrome or with more severe Autism .
Autism is one of the five pervasive developmental disorders ( PDD ) , which are characterized by widespread abnormalities of social interactions and communication , and severely restricted interests and highly repetitive behavior .	Autism is a life-changing disorder characterized by a profound withdrawal from contact with people , repetitive behavior , and fear of change in the environment .
Unlike with autism , people with Asperger syndrome have no substantial delay in language development .	Mild autism is called Asperger Syndrome or `` High functioning Autism '' .
Unlike many other brain disorders , such as Parkinson 's , autism does not have a clear unifying mechanism at either the molecular , cellular , or systems level ; it is not known whether autism is a few disorders caused by mutations converging on a few common molecular pathways , or is ( like intellectual disability ) a large set of disorders with diverse mechanisms .	Autism is a `` spectrum disorder '' .
However , most studies have found no evidence of impairment in autistic individuals ' ability to understand other people 's basic intentions or goals ; instead , data suggests that impairments are found in understanding more complex social emotions or in considering others ' viewpoints .	The emotional disorder affects the brain 's ability to receive and process information .
Sunderland was put into quarantine , and the port was blockaded , but in December of that year the disease spread to Gateshead and from there , it rapidly made its way across the country , killing an estimated 32,000 people .	But in December of that year , cholera was in Gateshead and it spread across the country , killing about 32,000 people .
The most recognizable and most common form of dwarfism in humans is achondroplasia , which accounts for 70 % of dwarfism cases and produces rhizomelic short limbs , increased spinal curvature , and distortion of skull growth .	The most common cause of dwarfism is a defect in bone development called achondroplasia , in which the limbs are short in proportion to the body .
In humans , the sole requirement is having an adult height under 147 cm ( 4 ft 10 in ) and it is almost always classified with respect to the underlying condition that is the cause of the short stature .	Dwarfism is used to describe a person of short stature , less than 4 feet , 10 inches ( 147 cm ) .
In the United States , Canada , the United Kingdom , and other English-speaking countries , many people with dwarfism prefer to be called little people .	People with this condition are called dwarves or little people .
Dwarfism is usually caused by a genetic disorder ; achondroplasia is caused by a mutation on chromosome four .	Dwarfism is often caused by the person inheriting an allele ( a mutant gene ) , which produces a defect in development .
The terms `` dwarf '' , `` little person '' , `` LP '' , and `` person of short stature '' are now generally considered acceptable by most people affected by these disorders .	A similar term for short people is midget ; however , dwarves and midgets are not the same .
For instance , the part of the world an eye can see , is its receptive field ; the light that each rod or cone can see , is its receptive field .	Fishes have a sense system which no land animal has .
Vacuoles are formed by the fusion of multiple membrane vesicles and are effectively just larger forms of these .	They are a kind of vesicle .
E-cigarettes were found by a New Zealand study to be as effective as nicotine patches in smoking cessation .	It does n't make smoke or other cancer-causing by-products .
The spread of humans and their large and increasing population has had a destructive impact on large areas of the environment and millions of native species worldwide .	Humans are part of the animal kingdom .
Modern humans ( Homo sapiens or Homo sapiens sapiens ) are the only extant members of the hominid clade , a branch of great apes characterized by erect posture and bipedal locomotion ; manual dexterity and increased tool use ; and a general trend toward larger , more complex brains and societies .	A human is a member of the species Homo sapiens which means ` wise man ' in Latin .
The Black Death had a profound impact on art and literature throughout the generation that experienced it .	The Black Death has been used as a subject or as a setting in modern literature and media .
The Black Death killed about 40 % of Egypt 's population .	The Black Death was a pandemic ( an epidemic spreading over a large area ) that killed millions of people .
Spreading throughout the Mediterranean and Europe , the Black Death is estimated to have killed 30-60 % of Europe 's total population .	The Black Death had a very big effect on Europe 's population .
Other arguments include the lack of accounts of the death of rats before outbreaks of plague between the 14th and 17th centuries ; temperatures that are too cold in northern Europe for the survival of fleas ; that , despite primitive transport systems , the spread of the Black Death was much faster than that of modern bubonic plague ; that mortality rates of the Black Death appear to be very high ; that , while modern bubonic plague is largely endemic as a rural disease , the Black Death indiscriminately struck urban and rural areas ; and that the pattern of the Black Death , with major outbreaks in the same areas separated by 5 to 15 years , differs from modern bubonic plague-which often becomes endemic for decades with annual flare-ups .	The initial fourteenth-century European event was called the `` Great Mortality '' by contemporary writers and , with later outbreaks , became known as the ` Black Death ' .
Surveys of plague pit remains in France and England indicate the first variant entered Europe through the port of Marseille around November 1347 and spread through France over the next two years , eventually reaching England in the spring of 1349 , where it spread through the country in three epidemics .	Black Metal band 1349 are named after the year Black Death spread through Norway .
The disease may have traveled along the Silk Road with Mongol armies and traders or it could have come via ship .	Anthrax could have been spread by cattle .
( Commonly and from ( its ) effects , they called ( it ) the black death . )	These swellings were a black and purple color , hence the name ` The Black Death ' .
The Third plague pandemic ( 1855-1959 ) started in China in the middle of the 19th century , spreading to all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone .	This means about 25 million people died from it in Europe alone .
Many scholars arguing for the Y. pestis as the major agent of the pandemic suggest that its extent and symptoms can be explained by a combination of bubonic plague with other diseases , including typhus , smallpox and respiratory infections .	Most people think that the disease was the bubonic plague .
A Jain version of the story says that six blind men were asked to determine what an elephant looked like by feeling different parts of the elephant 's body .	None of blind men 's description is correct for the whole elephant .
However , Florey said that the project was originally driven by scientific interests , and that the medicinal discovery was a bonus : Florey shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1945 with Ernst Boris Chain and Alexander Fleming .	He worked with Ernst Chain to explore discoveries made earlier by Alexander Fleming .
However , the researchers did not have enough penicillin to help him to a full recovery , and he relapsed and died .	His most important work was turning penicillin into the first antibiotic .
Epidemiology is the science that studies the patterns , causes , and effects of health and disease conditions in defined populations .	Epidemiology is the study of factors which affect the health and illness of populations by communicable and non-communicable diseases .
It is the cornerstone of public health , and informs policy decisions and evidence-based practice by identifying risk factors for disease and targets for preventive healthcare .	It also is an important methodology of public health research , and an evidence-based medicine for identifying risk factors for disease and determining optimal treatment approaches to clinical practice .
He suffered a stroke on the road between Delden and Nordhorn on 9 June 1727 , and was taken by carriage to the Prince-Bishop 's palace at Osnabrück where he died in the early hours of 11 June 1727 .	He died while going back to Hanover from England on 11 June 1727 .
Lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the initial lymphatic vessels of the lymphatic system .	Lymphatic fluid gathers from the tissues and enters the valved lymphatic ducts .
The lymphatic system consists of lymphatic organs , a conducting network of lymphatic vessels , and lymph , the substance that travels within the vessels .	It is a one-way system which carries cells and fluid back to the blood system Lymphatic vessels carry lymph , a colorless , watery fluid and white blood cells .
The hilum presents as a depression on the surface of the lymph node , which makes the otherwise spherical or ovoid lymph node bean-shaped .	Lymph nodes swell in the region of an infected body part .
Several afferent lymph vessels bring in lymph , which percolates through the substance of the lymph node , and is drained out by an efferent lymph vessel .	In mammals under normal conditions most of the lymph is returned to the blood stream through lymph-vein communications at the base of the neck .
Rootlets are a part of the peripheral nervous system .	The system serves the autonomic nervous system as well as the motor activities which we control consciously .
In the State of Kansas , the law says `` No person shall perform body piercing , cosmetic tattooing or tattooing on or to any person under 18 years of age without the prior written and notarized consent of the parent or court appointed guardian of such person and the person giving such consent must be present during the body piercing , cosmetic tattooing or tattooing procedure . ''	Minors must have parent consent .
Special schools will also have other facilities for children with special needs , such as soft play areas , sensory rooms , or swimming pools , which necessary for treating students with certain conditions .	Most schools around the world use inclusion , which means children with special needs , need to earn their right to be in the regular classroom .
She was a young woman from Scotland who had no experience with deaf or blind people .	Helen tried to help poor people and other blind people during her life .
The World Health Organization state that there is `` debate about the role of the foreskin , with possible functions including keeping the glans moist , protecting the developing penis in utero , or enhancing sexual pleasure due to the presence of nerve receptors '' .	The World Health Organization say that there are lots of uses for the foreskin , such as keeping the glans penis moist , protecting it or to make sexual intercourse feel nicer since it has so many nerves in it .
Gairdner ( 1949 ) states that the foreskin protects the glans .	The foreskin protects the glans penis when the penis is not erect .
In some cases , particularly with chronic conditions , treatment may include circumcision , a procedure where the foreskin is partially or completely removed .	Circumcision is when the foreskin is cut off .
They concluded that these characteristics were found in `` less sensitive areas of the body '' .	The five most sensitive areas of the penis are on the foreskin .
One study showed that the loss of the foreskin resulted in decreased masturbatory pleasure and sexual enjoyment .	However , Moses and Bailey ( 1998 ) , say that `` it has not been demonstrated that ( the foreskin ) is associated with increased male sexual pleasure . ''
From an evolutionary perspective , weaning conflict may be considered the result of the cost of continued nursing to the mother , perhaps in terms of reduced ability to raise future offspring , exceeding the benefits to the mother in terms of increased survival of the current infant .	Weaning conflict happens when the mother wants to wean her baby , but the baby wants to keep breastfeeding .
It was expected that the guppies would eat the mosquito larvae and help slow the spread of malaria , but in many cases , these guppies have had a negative impact on native fish populations .	Guppies , like all fish , have gills , which oversee the gas exchange .
Risk factors for stroke include old age , high blood pressure , previous stroke or transient ischemic attack ( TIA ) , diabetes , high cholesterol , tobacco smoking and atrial fibrillation .	Factors that increase the risk of a stroke include old age , high blood pressure , a previous stroke , diabetes , high cholesterol , smoking , atrial fibrillation , migraine with aura , and thrombophilia ( a tendency to thrombosis ) .
In an ischemic stroke , blood supply to part of the brain is decreased , leading to dysfunction of the brain tissue in that area .	A stroke is an event which damages part of the brain .
Ischemia is caused by either blockage of a blood vessel via thrombosis or arterial embolism , or by systemic hypoperfusion .	This can happen because of ischemia ( lack of blood flow ) caused by blockage ( thrombosis , arterial embolism ) , or a hemorrhage ( leakage of blood ) .
A scoring system called ROSIER ( recognition of stroke in the emergency room ) is recommended for this purpose ; it is based on features from the medical history and physical examination .	A stroke is a medical emergency .
High blood pressure is the most important modifiable risk factor of stroke .	Of those factors , the most easy to fix are high blood pressure and smoking .
The modes of application of aromatherapy include : Some of the materials employed include : Aromatherapy is the treatment or prevention of disease by use of essential oils .	The ways of using aromatherapy oils include :
Aromatherapy has been promoted for its ability to fight cancer ; however , according to the American Cancer Society , `` available scientific evidence does not support claims that aromatherapy is effective in preventing or treating cancer '' .	Evidence that aromatherapy works in treating disease and other conditions is poor .
Some essential oils such as tea tree have demonstrated anti-microbial effects , but there is still a lack of clinical evidence demonstrating efficacy against bacterial , fungal , or viral infections .	Some essential oils like tea tree do have an anti-microbial effect , so they may be useful for the treatment of infections .
The water used for flushing toilets has been used at least once already : frequently it is filtered waste-water from sinks and showers , and described as `` Greywater '' .	Used water from sinks and showers is reused to water indoor plants and after that for toilet flushing .
The book depicts working class poverty , the absence of social programs , harsh and unpleasant living and working conditions , and a hopelessness among many workers .	The book writes about the poverty , bad living and working conditions , and sorrow among the working class .
Horowitz and Toscanini went on to perform together many times , on stage and in recordings .	Vladimir Horowitz died on November 5 , 1989 in New York of a heart attack .
Premature infants are at greater risk for short and long term complications , including disabilities and impediments in growth and mental development .	Prematurely born infants are also at greater risk of developing serious health problems such as cerebral palsy , chronic lung disease , gastrointestinal problems , mental retardation , vision or hearing loss and are more susceptible to developing depression as teenagers .
In humans the usual definition of preterm birth is birth before a gestational age of 37 complete weeks .	Babies who are born before 37 complete weeks of pregnancy ( calculated from the last menstrual period ) are said to be premature .
Increased risk has not been shown in women who terminated their pregnancies medically .	When conditions permit doctors may attempt to stop premature labor , so that the pregnancy can have a chance to continue to full term .
Later , Littlefoot is accompanied by a young `` Bigmouth\/Swimmer '' named Ducky , whose company bears him out of his depression .	There are five main characters known as the `` Gang of Five : '' Littlefoot : The leader of the gang , Littlefoot is a `` long-neck , '' the in-universe name for Apatosaurus .
Pat , who was 12 at the time , assumed all the household duties for her father , who died in 1929 of silicosis , and two older brothers , William Jr. ( 1910-1997 ) and Thomas ( 1911-1992 ) .	She took over all the household duties for her father and two older brothers .
In testing that possibility , he found that transformation could occur when dead bacteria of a virulent type and live bacteria of a non-virulent type were both injected in mice : the mice would develop a fatal infection ( normally only caused by live bacteria of the virulent type ) and die , virulent bacteria could be isolated from such infected mice .	In this early experiment dead Streptococcus pneumoniae of the virulent strain type III-S , when injected along with living but non-virulent type II-R pneumococci , resulted in a deadly infection of type III-S pneumococci .
Model organisms are in vivo models and are widely used to research human disease when human experimentation would be unfeasible or unethical .	In particular , model organisms are widely used to explore potential causes and treatments for human disease when experimenting on humans would be impossible or less ethical .
Humanistic psychology was developed in the 1950s in reaction to both behaviorism and psychoanalysis , largely due to the person-centered therapy of Carl Rogers ( often referred to as Rogerian Therapy ) and existential psychology developed by Viktor Frankl and Rollo May .	Humanistic psychology was developed in the 1950s in reaction to both behaviourism ( the belief that conditioning is the main cause of human behavior ) and psychoanalysis ( the belief that the unconscious is the main cause of human behavior ) .
Clinical psychologists provide psychotherapy , psychological testing , and diagnosis of mental illness .	Clinical psychologists examine the mental functioning of a person and use psychotherapy to treat the disorder .
Other notable groups of gram-negative bacteria include the cyanobacteria , spirochaetes , green sulfur , and green non-sulfur bacteria .	This colors all gram-negative bacteria with a red or pink color .
Despite their thinner peptidoglycan , Gram-negative bacteria are more resistant to antibiotics than Gram-positive due to their relatively impermeable lipid based bacterial outer membrane .	Compared with gram-positive bacteria , gram-negative bacteria are more resistant against antibiotics , because of their relatively impermeable cell wall .
He died later in 1633 , possibly in early fall from a probable infectious disease .	Brown became sick and died in 1633 .
Upon receiving the signal , building occupants of schools , hospitals , factories , shopping centers , etc. proceed to a designated location , usually an interior room or corridor with no windows , and assume a protective position .	This is usually a room deep inside the building ( probably near the middle ) , or a hallway with no windows .
In the event of an overdose or if combined with another sedative , many of these drugs can cause unconsciousness ( see hypnotic ) and even death .	A sleeping pill ( people also call it sedative ) is a drug that people take to help them sleep .
Normally a gamete ( sperm or egg ) carries a full set of chromosomes that includes a single copy of each chromosome , as aneuploidy generally leads to severe genetic disease in the offspring .	The gametes of polyploids are unusual , because they may carry several sets of chromosomes .
Lung volume reduction surgery involves removing the parts of the lung most damaged by emphysema allowing the remaining , relatively good lung to expand and work better .	It can also lead to infections of the lung , which may be serious enough to cause death .
The vas deferens is supplied by an accompanying artery ( artery of vas deferens ) .	The sperm go from the vas deferens into the urethra .
As with functional analysis , descriptive functional behavior assessment utilizes direct observation of behavior ; unlike functional analysis , however , observations are made under naturally occurring conditions .	A functional analysis is not always done .
The conditioning of operant behavior is the result of reinforcement and punishment .	A person has control over their own operant behavior .
Applied behavior analysis ( ABA ) , previously known as behavior modification , is the application of operant and classical conditioning that modifies human behaviors , especially as part of a learning or treatment process .	ABA treatments measure rates of behavior .
Respondent conditioning ( also called classical conditioning ) is learning in which new stimuli acquire the ability to elicit respondents .	Classical conditioning is also called pavlovian conditioning .
By pairing that stimulus ( smell ) with another stimulus ( e.g. , a light ) , the second stimulus can obtain the function of the first stimulus , given that the predictive relationship between the two stimuli is maintained .	Pairing stimuli can then change behavior .
What the behavior looks like often reveals little useful information about the conditions that account for it .	An operational definition tells people exactly what a target behavior looks like .
In the lab , this has been easy as the researcher can start and stop the behavior at will .	The antecedent can change the chance that a behavior will happen .
However , applied behavior analysis contributes to a full range of areas including : AIDS prevention , business management , conservation of natural resources , education , gerontology , health and exercise , industrial safety , language acquisition , littering , medical procedures , parenting , psychotherapy , seatbelt use , severe mental disorders , sports , substance abuse , and zoo management and care of animals .	It was one of the first times that behavior was studied scientifically .
This is done through stimulus-stimulus pairing , for example , the stimulus ( smell of food ) can elicit a person 's salivation .	To pair stimuli together a person must make them happen at the same time .
This hypothesis can be used to develop an behavior intervention plan or as a basis for a more formal analysis of function ( i.e. Trial based analysis , or analog analysis ) This method uses structured interviews , checklists , rating scales , or questionnaires to obtain information from persons who are familiar with the person exhibiting the behavior to identify possible conditions or events in the natural environment that correlate with the problem behavior .	But ABC data can be used to find things that may be causing behavior .
The subsequent articles built upon these methods and reported the first demonstration of an effective way to teach nonverbal children to speak , a study on establishing social ( secondary ) reinforcers , a procedure for teaching children to imitate , and several studies on interventions to reduce life-threatening self-injury and aggression .	They are also called conditioned reinforcers .
However , identifying the conditions that account for a behavior , suggests what conditions need to be altered to change the behavior .	He believed all behavior is learned and can be changed .
A - The Antecedent Condition ( s ) : 3 .	He made the treatments for developmental disorders a lot better .
Operant conditioning applies to so-called `` voluntary '' responses , which an organism emits and increase or decrease in frequency as a function of the consequences which follow .	This change is meant to help the learner make the correct response .
Huxley and Hodgkin won the prize for experimental and mathematical work on the process of nerve action potentials , the electrical impulses that enable the activity of an organism to be coordinated by a central nervous system .	These are the electrical impulses that make nerve fibers work , and so the whole central nervous system .
An idiot is said to be idiotic , and to suffer from idiocy .	The noun idiocy describes the state of being idiotic .
Unless they also have another sleep disorder , their sleep is of normal quality .	Their sleep is usually normal .
Thus , the body is ready for sleep and for wakefulness at different times of the day .	People with this disorder sleep and wake several times a day , but not at the same times every day .
She returned to Australia but died in St Vincent 's Hospital , Sydney in 1931 , aged 69 , of septicemia which had developed after facial surgery in Europe some time before .	She died of septicemia in Sydney .
Balto ( 1919 - March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome , in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana , Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .	Balto was the final dog .
Sullivan apparently had no idea who McCartney was .	Sullivan thought that his illness was because of ulcers .
Other studies , using ultrasound , have found physiological evidence of the G-spot in women who report having orgasms during vaginal intercourse .	However , there are two methods which are used to find it : Some women say that they have `` deeper '' orgasms when the G-spot is stimulated .
The location of the G-spot is typically reported as being about 50 to 80 mm ( 2 to 3 in ) inside the vagina , on the front wall .	Although typically described as near the entrance inside of the vagina , reports of the G-spot 's location vary and therefore it has no specific place to be found .
Some women will have a certain area within the vagina which will be very sensitive , and some wo n't - but they wo n't necessarily be in the area called the G spot , '' stated Boynton .	Some people who are not doctors simply say that it is a `` highly sensitive area '' in the vagina .
The G-spot , also called the Gräfenberg spot , is characterized as an erogenous area of the vagina that , when stimulated , may lead to strong sexual arousal , powerful orgasms and potential female ejaculation .	If the area is stimulated , this can cause pleasurable sensations , female ejaculation and a strong orgasm in some women .
The 17th-century Dutch physician Regnier de Graaf described female ejaculation and referred to an erogenous zone in the vagina that he linked with the male prostate ; this zone was later reported by the German gynecologist Ernst Gräfenberg .	It is named after the German gynaecologist , Ernst Gräfenberg .
In the deep layer of posterior muscles tibialis posterior arises proximally on the back of the interosseous membrane and adjoining bones and divides into two parts in the sole of the foot to attach to the tarsus .	The bottom of the foot is called the sole .
In 1945 , Delbrück , Luria , and Hershey set up a course in bacteriophage genetics at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Long Island , New York .	During the 1940s Delbrück developed a course in bacteriophage genetics at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory to encourage interest in the field .
In 1942 , Delbrück and Luria published on bacterial resistance to virus infection mediated by random mutation .	In 1942 , he and Salvador Luria of Indiana University demonstrated that bacterial resistance to virus infection is caused by random mutation and not adaptive change .
Diabetes mellitus ( DM ) or simply diabetes , is a group of metabolic diseases in which a person has high blood sugar .	People with diabetes mellitus are called `` diabetics '' .
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin resistance , which may be combined with relatively reduced insulin secretion .	Type 1 diabetes mellitus happens when the part of the pancreas that makes insulin is destroyed by that person 's own immune system .
These phenomena are believed to occur no more frequently than in 1 % to 2 % of persons with type 1 diabetes .	In order to live , a person with Type 1 diabetes must take insulin for the rest of their life .
About 20-50 % of affected women develop type 2 diabetes later in life .	About 1 out of every 10 people with diabetes have Type 1 Diabetes .
Likewise , the term `` type 2 diabetes '' has replaced several former terms , including adult-onset diabetes , obesity-related diabetes , and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( NIDDM ) .	However , when people say `` diabetes '' , they usually mean diabetes mellitus .
When insulin is used in type 2 diabetes , a long-acting formulation is usually added initially , while continuing oral medications .	In Type 2 diabetes , the person makes insulin , but either the insulin does not work in that person 's body as it should , or they do not make enough insulin to process the glucose .
Type 1 diabetes can affect children or adults , but was traditionally termed `` juvenile diabetes '' because a majority of these diabetes cases were in children .	Type 2 diabetes happens most of the time in an older person who is overweight .
Other forms of diabetes mellitus include congenital diabetes , which is due to genetic defects of insulin secretion , cystic fibrosis-related diabetes , steroid diabetes induced by high doses of glucocorticoids , and several forms of monogenic diabetes .	There is another type of diabetes , called diabetes insipidus Diabetes is the condition that results from lack of insulin in a person 's blood , or when their body has a problem using the insulin it produces ( Insulin resistance ) .
Prolonged high blood glucose can cause glucose absorption in the lens of the eye , which leads to changes in its shape , resulting in vision changes .	When the pancreas does not make insulin , glucose - sugar - in the blood can not get into the parts of the body that need sugar to live .
Insulin and some oral medications can cause low blood sugar , which can be dangerous .	When insulin does not work as it should , glucose ( sugar ) in the blood can not get into the parts of the body that need sugar .
Some cases of diabetes are caused by the body 's tissue receptors not responding to insulin ( even when insulin levels are normal , which is what separates it from type 2 diabetes ) ; this form is very uncommon .	Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas .
Prediabetes indicates a condition that occurs when a person 's blood glucose levels are higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of type 2 DM .	Glucose level in the blood is controlled by several hormones .
Diabetes is due to either the pancreas not producing enough insulin , or because cells of the body do not respond properly to the insulin that is produced .	When you eat , the pancreas makes insulin to send a message to other cells in the body .
After suffering a stroke on January 4 , 2006 , Sharon remained in a permanent vegetative state until his death in January 2014 , Sharon was born on February 26 , 1928 in Kfar Malal , an agricultural moshav , then in the British Mandate of Palestine , to Shmuel Scheinerman ( 1896-1956 ) of Brest-Litovsk and Vera ( née Schneirov ) Scheinerman ( 1900-1988 ) of Mogilev .	Sharon was born on February 27 , 1928 in Kfar Malal , British-Palestine .
Later he attempted to join the military but was prevented from doing so by medical problems associated with tuberculosis , with which he was diagnosed in 1917 .	In 1917 he got tuberculosis .
Perlman contracted polio at age four .	Perlman had been ill with polio at the age of four .
In late diastole , i.e. , the A-wave , as the left and right atria contract , the blood pressure in each atrium increases , forcing additional blood into the ventricles .	The blood then flows from the atrium into the ventricle .
Proper vitamin D status is important because vitamin D is converted to a hormone in the body , which then induces the synthesis of intestinal proteins responsible for calcium absorption .	( Vitamin D is a hormone but it is called a vitamin . )
Calcium supplements are used to prevent and to treat calcium deficiencies .	It can also be used to make alloys with other metals .
Articles 33-39 govern reporting and monitoring of the convention by national human rights institutions ( Article 33 ) and Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( Article 34 ) .	Article 33 ( Application in national level ) Countries must make a national human rights institution to realize this Convention and to watch the condition of the application of this , and make persons with disabilities enable to participate the institution .
Article 1 defines the purpose of the Convention : to promote , protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities , and to promote respect for their inherent dignity Articles 2 and 3 provide definitions and general principles including communication , reasonable accommodation and universal design .	( Right to work ) Countries must admit the right of person with disabilities to work in just , good , safe and healthy condition and do policy that forbid all discrimination and bullying because of disability , and further must promote chance for person with disabilities to do self-work , entrepreneur and start one 's own business .
Article 28 requires that States Parties recognize the right of persons with disabilities to an adequate standard of living for themselves and their families , including adequate food , clothing and housing , and to the continuous improvement of living conditions , and shall take appropriate steps to safeguard and promote the realization of this rights without discrimination on the basis of disability .	( Good standard of living ) Countries must admit that person with disability have the right to an adequate standard of living without discrimination and must give social protection or welfare , especially for women and girls , and also financial aid for person in poverty .
It is thought the leopard has erythrism , a little-understood genetic condition that 's thought to cause either an overproduction of red pigments or an underproduction of dark pigments Fossils of early leopard ancestors have been found in East Africa and South Asia from the Pleistocene of 2 to 3.5 Ma .	It lives in Africa and Asia .
Bodybuilders prepare for competition through a combination of dehydration , fat loss , oils , and tanning ( or tanning lotions ) which make their muscular definition more distinct .	The muscles are revealed through a process known as the `` cutting phase '' - a combination of fat loss , oils , and tanning which , combined with the lighting , make the definition of the muscle group more distinct .
In competitive amateur and professional bodybuilding , bodybuilders appear in lineups doing specified poses , and later perform individual posing routines , for a panel of judges who rank competitors based on criteria such as symmetry , muscularity and conditioning .	In competitive bodybuilding , bodybuilders display their physiques to a panel of judges , who assign points based on their appearance .
Bodybuilding is the use of progressive resistance exercise to control and develop one 's musculature .	Bodybuilding is a form of human body modification involving intensive muscle hypertrophy .
His family received a posthumous award for his courage and heroism during the great yellow fever epidemic of 1871 that hit the city of Buenos Aires and resulted in Sinforoso Amoedo 's death on April 23 , 1871 .	He worked with patients during the yellow fever epidemic that hit the city of Buenos Aires .
Dialysis treatments replace some of these functions through diffusion ( waste removal ) and ultrafiltration ( fluid removal ) .	Dialysis machines work by using diffusion and ultrafiltration .
Dialysis is an imperfect treatment to replace kidney function because it does not correct the compromised endocrine functions of the kidney .	Dialysis machines are not able to replace this part of the kidney 's function .
The fiber wall acts as the semipermeable membrane .	The waste products are removed from the blood and caught up in the fine membrane .
Over the following two years , ( 1943-1945 ) Kolff used his machine to treat 16 patients suffering from acute kidney failure , but the results were unsuccessful .	Dialysis is where a machine is used to replace a kidney after kidney failure .
In medicine , dialysis ( from Greek dialusis , '' διάλυσις '' , meaning dissolution , dia , meaning through , and lysis , meaning loosening or splitting ) is a process for removing waste and excess water from the blood , and is used primarily as an artificial replacement for lost kidney function in people with renal failure .	Dialysis can be used for people who have become sick and have lost the use of their kidneys for a short time , or for people who no longer have working kidneys .
In his later life , Morrison developed an alcohol dependency which led to his death at the age of 27 in Paris .	Morrison had a problem with alcohol .
Presley was scheduled to fly out of Memphis on the evening of August 16 , 1977 , to begin another tour .	He died on August 16 , 1977 from a heart attack .
This form of anthrax is the rarest form .	There are 89 different kinds ( strains ) of anthrax .
Anthrax is an acute disease caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis .	It is caused by the bacterium bacillus anthracis .
Anthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release .	The spores of the bacteria can live for hundreds of years .
A blood sample taken in a sealed container and analyzed in an approved laboratory should be used to ascertain if anthrax is the cause of death .	If not treated , anthrax often leads to death .
Alternative names : siberian plague , charbon , splenic fever , malignant edema , woolsorter 's disease Robert Koch , a German physician and scientist , first identified the bacterium that caused the anthrax disease in 1875 in Wolsztyn .	Anthrax , or splenic fever is a disease .
Antibiotic-resistant strains of anthrax are known .	The USSR blamed the deaths on another strain of anthrax that the people caught by digesting infected meat .
Treatment for anthrax infection and other bacterial infections includes large doses of intravenous and oral antibiotics , such as fluoroquinolones ( like ciprofloxacin ) , doxycycline , erythromycin , vancomycin , or penicillin .	Anthrax can be treated with antibiotics .
This form of Anthrax is found most commonly when humans handle infected animals and\/or animal products ( e.g. , the hide of an animal used to make drums ) .	Humans usually catch the disease from animals .
On 2 April 1979 , some of the over one million people living in Sverdlovsk ( now called Ekaterinburg , Russia ) , about 850 miles east of Moscow , were exposed to an accidental release of anthrax from a biological weapons complex located near there .	On April 2 , 1979 , there was a leak at one of the plants just outside of Sverdlovsk that made anthrax during the Cold War .
The nasal cavity conditions the air to be received by the other areas of the respiratory tract .	Diseases of the nasal cavity include viral infections and nasal cavity cancer .
Another drawback of waxing is that some people experience ingrown hairs , red bumps , and minor bleeding .	Ingrown hairs are also quite common and can become infected .
( Karen Krantzcke was an Australian player who died of a heart attack whilst jogging , aged 31 , on 11 April 1977 ) This award is named for the late WTA trailblazer Jerry Diamond and is awarded to the player who gives endlessly to promote the game of tennis on and off the court .	This is awarded to the player who the WTA think has played the best tennis in their first season as a professional .
Lambert died on 21 August 1951 , two days short of his forty-sixth birthday , of pneumonia and undiagnosed diabetes complicated by acute alcoholism , and was buried in Brompton Cemetery , London .	Lambert died on 21 August 1951 .
In addition , there is mounting evidence that mass-produced bumblebees may also carry diseases , harmful to wild bumblebees and honeybees .	All bumblebees have a sting , as hive bees do .
Bumblebees do not often preserve their nests through the winter , though some tropical species live in their nests for several years ( and their colonies can grow quite large , depending on the size of the nest cavity ) .	The usual size of a colony is under 50 members , though some tropical species live in larger colonies .
The brightly colored pile of the bumblebee is a form of aposematic signal .	Bumblebees carry aposematic warning colors , usually some combination of black , red , yellow and white .
This is where the queen stores sperm from her mating .	The queen stores sperm from her mating , and can decide whether or not to fertilise an egg as it comes down the oviduct to the vagina .
Redstockings co-founder Ellen Willis wrote in 1984 that radical feminism `` got sexual politics recognized as a public issue '' , `` created the vocabulary ... with which the second wave of feminism entered popular culture '' , `` sparked the drive to legalize abortion '' , `` were the first to demand total equality in the so-called private sphere '' ( `` housework and child care ... emotional and sexual needs '' ) , and `` created the atmosphere of urgency '' that almost led to the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment .	The third wave of feminism is liberal .
In the 1960s , radical feminism emerged simultaneously within liberal feminist and working class feminist discussions , first in the United States , then in the United Kingdom and Australia .	The Feminist Sex Wars were fights between radical feminists who said that porn , sex work , and BDSM are bad , and sex positive liberal feminists , who said that those things can be feminist .
It was said that Amy Robsart , his wife , was suffering from a `` malady in one of her breasts '' , and that the Queen would like to marry Dudley if his wife should die .	Elizabeth knew about Robert Dudley 's marriage to a woman called Amy Robsart as she had attended their wedding .
The ill-prepared and poorly supplied colonists lost over half of its population through a multitude of problems - including hunger , scurvy , disease and their first bitter winter on the North American mainland .	Plymouth Colony lost over half of its population because of sickness , lack of proper food and the cold winter .
They were victorious but Winslow contracted yellow fever and died on May 7 , 1655 near Jamaica .	They won the battle but Winslow became ill and died from yellow fever .
The influenza virus and HIV use this strategy .	Some of our most difficult-to-combat viruses , like influenza and HIV , use this method .
Positive-sense viral RNA is in the same sense as viral mRNA and thus at least a part of it can be immediately translated by the host cell .	This attacks the viral mRNA , and the cell survives the infection .
Subunit vaccine is being used for plague immunization .	New delivery technologies have resulted in oral vaccines , as a polio vaccine .
The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae ( smallpox of the cow ) , the term devised by Edward Jenner to denote cowpox .	The term comes from the Latin vaccīn-us ( from vacca , meaning cow ) ; in 1796 Edward Jenner used cows infected with cowpox ( variolae vaccinae ) to protect people against smallpox .
Examples of toxoid-based vaccines include tetanus and diphtheria .	Other canine vaccines include canine distemper , canine parvovirus , infectious canine hepatitis , adenovirus-2 , leptospirosis , bordatella , canine parainfluenza virus , and Lyme disease among others .
In response , concern has been raised that spreading unfounded information about the medical risks of vaccines increases rates of life-threatening infections , not only in the children whose parents refused vaccinations , but also in other children , perhaps too young for vaccines , who could contract infections from unvaccinated carriers ( see herd immunity ) .	In response a study says - `` Vaccine refusal not only increases the individual risk of disease but also increases the risk for the whole community .
The classic example is Jenner 's use of cowpox to protect against smallpox .	Vaccinations of animals are used both to prevent their contracting diseases and to prevent transmission of disease to humans .
Larger doses are used in some cases for older people ( 50-75 years and up ) , whose immune response to a given vaccine is not as strong .	This concern is based upon reports that some live viral vaccines , such as those containing attenuated measles virus , can decrease protective immune response to the varicella vaccine and that it can cause excess invasive bacterial infections in developing countries .
He was member of the Bundestag until 29 June 1958 , when he died of a heart attack .	He died of a heart attack on 29 June 1958 , during the Landtag ( state parliament ) election campaign .
Kiedis was also struggling with his heroin addiction ; he had been through a dental procedure in Beverly Hills , in which an addictive sedative , Valium , was used ; this caused him to relapse , and he once again became dependent on drugs , although the band would n't find out this fact for a while .	During this time , Kiedis had troubles with the drug heroin again .
His drug use `` made a mess of the early recording process '' , but the band still had an enjoyable time recording the album .	At one practice session with the band , he fell over his amplifier because he was in an over-excited condition because he had taken too many drugs-he was `` high '' .
In 1994 , UNICEF held a summit encouraging animation studios around the world to create individual animated spots demonstrating the international rights of children .	UNICEF has decided the following 5 areas as priority or main areas : Some other priority areas are the child in the family , and sports for development .
Henry II moved in support of Richard , and Henry the Young King died from dysentery at the end of the campaign .	As he returned from the Crusade , Richard was captured by Leopold V , Duke of Austria , and handed over to Henry VI , the Holy Roman Emperor , who held him for ransom .
Orchids have been used in traditional medicine in an effort to treat many diseases and ailments .	Orchids can be found in almost every country in the world except for Antarctica .
On October 2 , 1978 , Allen was arrested in the Kalamazoo\/Battle Creek International Airport for possession of over 650 grams ( 1.43 lb ) of cocaine .	In October 1978 , he was arrested while in possession of 1.4 pounds of cocaine .
Roberts died of pneumonia at St Omer , France , on 14 November 1914 while visiting Indian troops fighting in the First World War .	Roberts died on November 14 , 1914 .
Early the following morning , Shriver died at the hospital ; she was 88 years old .	Shriver died on August 11 , 2009 in Hyannis , Massachusetts after having a stroke , aged 88 .
In 1634 , smallpox and influenza ravaged both the English and the Indians in the region .	An epidemic killed many English and Indians in the region .
He died in Bayreuth , Germany , on July 31 , 1886 , at the age of 74 , officially as a result of pneumonia , which he may have contracted during the Bayreuth Festival hosted by his daughter Cosima .	He died in Bayreuth July 31 , 1886 .
When the elder Strauss died from scarlet fever in Vienna in 1849 , the younger Strauss merged both their orchestras and engaged in further tours .	After his father died in 1849 the two orchestras joined into one and the young Johann was their conductor .
DeLuise died on May 4 , 2009 , at Saint John 's Health Center in Santa Monica , California .	DeLuise lived in Santa Monica , California until his death there on May 4 , 2009 He had renal failure due to diabetes and also had cancer .
He was hospitalized at the time , suffering from kidney failure and respiratory problems due to complications from diabetes and high blood pressure .	He died from kidney failure and complications of cancer .
The sport is open to all competitors with a visual or physical disability .	The sport is open to all competitors with a no seeing or physical condition of being unable stand .
The classifications are grouped into three general disability types : standing , blind and sitting .	The system of ordering are grouped into three general condition of being unable sorts : stand , unable to see and being seated .
It could be said that hypnotic suggestion is explicitly intended to make use of the placebo effect .	Hypnotic suggestions may be delivered by a hypnotist in the presence of the subject , or may be self-administered ( ` self-suggestion ' or ` autosuggestion ' ) .
Woolf suffered from severe bouts of mental illness throughout her life , thought to have been the result of what is now termed bipolar disorder , and committed suicide by drowning in 1941 at the age of 59 .	She had bipolar disorder in the time when few people knew this illness and most thought she was strange .
Jolie has had a difficult relationship with her father .	Jolie said she might have her ovaries removed to prevent having cancer .
Guevara later remarked that through his travels in Latin America , he came in `` close contact with poverty , hunger and disease '' along with the `` inability to treat a child because of lack of money '' and `` stupefaction provoked by the continual hunger and punishment '' that leads a father to `` accept the loss of a son as an unimportant accident '' .	He wanted to be a doctor .
The safety of food colors and other food additives in the EU is evaluated by the European Food Safety Authority .	In the past , research has not shown any link between Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and food dyes .
Apple Records was officially founded by the group after their return from India in 1968 , as another sub-division of Apple Corps , which was established as a small group of companies ( Apple Retail , Apple Publishing , Apple Electronics and so on ) , as part of Epstein 's plan to create a tax-effective business structure .	It was a division of the Beatles 's company Apple Corps .
Recent psychiatric classifications refer to the syndrome as shared psychotic disorder ( DSM-IV ) ( 297.3 ) and induced delusional disorder ( F. 24 ) in the ICD-10 , although the research literature largely uses the original name .	Officially , the condition is known as induced delusional disorder or shared psychotic disorder today , but many publications still use the original terms , which were developed in France in the 19th century .
Various sub-classifications of folie à deux have been proposed to describe how the delusional belief comes to be held by more than one person .	Today , there are two main forms of the condition : Newer studies seem to indicate that this classification may not be sufficient to fully describe ` folie à deux ' .
Coleridge 's ill-health , opium-addiction problems , and somewhat unstable personality meant that all his lectures were plagued with problems of delays and a general irregularity of quality from one lecture to the next .	Coleridge 's addiction to opium marked the rest of his life .
Hate crimes can have significant and wide-ranging psychological consequences , not only upon the direct victim but on others as well .	Normally , a hate crime is not caused in any way by something the victim did or said , but just because of who they are .
In 1955 , when Bob Marley was 10 years old , his father died of a heart attack at the age of 70 .	Bob Marley died on 11 May 1981 , at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami , Florida , due to melanoma .
Tom worked hard as a parcel carrier for the USPS to provide for his family , but in 1985 he suddenly came down with Hodgkin 's Disease and died at the age of 29 .	Her husband had died of Hodgkin 's Disease in 1985 .
Cellulite is thought to occur in 80-90 % of post-adolescent females .	80-90 % of women around the world are thought to have cellulite , and most doctors think that it is the `` normal condition of many women '' .
For the infection of skin and its underlying connective tissue , see cellulitis .	Cellulite is not related to cellulitis which is a spreading bacterial infection of the skin .
Esophageal candidiasis can cause dysphagia ( difficulty swallowing ) , or less commonly odynophagia ( painful swallowing ) .	One sign of esophageal candidiasis is painful swallowing .
Thrush is commonly seen in infants .	In babies the condition is called thrush .
Almost 15 % of people with weakened immune systems develop a systemic illness caused by Candida species .	The disease is caused by any of the Candida species of yeast .
Candidiasis encompasses infections that range from superficial , such as oral thrush and vaginitis , to systemic and potentially life-threatening diseases .	Candidiasis , often called yeast infection or thrush , is a type of infectious disease .
However , many federal laws ( i.e. , those equalizing pay , employment , education , employment opportunities , and credit ; ending pregnancy discrimination ; and requiring NASA , the Military Academies , and other organizations to admit women ) , state laws ( i.e. , those ending spousal abuse and marital rape ) , Supreme Court rulings ( i.e. ruling that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment applied to women ) , and state ERAs established women 's equal status under the law , and social custom and consciousness began to change , accepting women 's equality .	The New Deal had many programs such as Social Security , the National Recovery Administration ( regulated wages ) , Works Progress Administration ( built thousands of roads , schools , government buildings and works of art ) , the Civilian Conservation Corps ( gave young people jobs to help the environment ) , and Tennessee Valley Authority ( built dams and electric lines in the South ) .
The effects of new Eurasian diseases carried by the colonists , especially smallpox and measles , was much worse for the Native Americans , as they had no immunity to them .	This means that they worked for other people , but had no freedom and received no money for their work .
So it happened that on the retirement of Homer Swift in 1946 , McCarty was asked to head the laboratory established in 1922 to work on streptococci and rheumatic fever .	McCarty later explained the work for the general reader .
Symbiosis is also classified by physical attachment of the organisms ; symbiosis in which the organisms have bodily union is called conjunctive symbiosis , and symbiosis in which they are not in union is called disjunctive symbiosis .	The widest definition includes parasitism ( in which one organism is helped and the other organism is hurt ) , mutualism ( in which both organisms are helped ) , commensalism ( in which one organism is helped and the other is not affected ) , and competition ( in which both organisms are hurt ) .
The epididymis can be divided into three main regions : In reptiles , there is an additional canal between the testis and the head of the epididymis and which receives the various efferent ducts .	The dinges is made up of three parts : Sperm made in the testis go into the head ( caput ) of the epididymis , go through the body ( corpus ) and stop at the tail ( cauda ) , where they are stored .
The epididymis ( \/ ɛpɨˈdɪdɨmɪs \/ ; plural : epididymides \/ ɛpɨdɨˈdɪmədiːz \/ or \/ ɛpɨˈdɪdəmɪdiːz \/ ) is part of the male reproductive system and is present in all male amniotes .	The epididymis is the part of the human male reproductive system .
It is a single , narrow , tightly-coiled tube ( in adult humans , six to seven meters in length ) connecting the efferent ducts from the rear of each testicle to its vas deferens .	It stretches from the back of each testicle to the van deferens .
Dukkha is commonly translated as `` suffering '' , `` anxiety '' , `` unsatisfactoriness '' , `` unease '' , etc. , and it is said to have the following three aspects : The central importance of dukkha in Buddhist philosophy has caused some observers to consider Buddhism to be a pessimistic philosophy .	Dukkha usually is translated as suffering .
A temporary state of nirvana can be said to occur whenever the causes of suffering ( e.g. craving ) have ceased in our mind .	To end suffering we must end our cravings .
In 1768 , at the age of nineteen , Marie Thérèse became a widow when her husband died of a venereal disease at the Château de Louveciennes .	Her husband died in her arms in 1768 .
Absinthe 's popularity grew steadily through the 1840s , when absinthe was given to French troops as a malaria preventive .	In the 1840s absinthe was given to French soldiers as a malaria treatment .
Spurred by the temperance movement and the winemakers ' associations , absinthe was publicly associated with violent crimes and social disorder .	Absinthe was often linked with violent crimes supposedly committed under its influence .
Kits often call for soaking herbs in vodka or alcohol , or adding a liquid concentrate to vodka or alcohol to create an ersatz absinthe .	It is possible to create a ` naturally colored ' absinthe of any color by using the correct plant material .
Absinthe was exported widely from its native France and Switzerland , and attained some degree of popularity in other countries , including Spain , Great Britain , USA , and the Czech Republic .	Absinthe should be stored in a cool , room temperature , dry place away from light and heat .
The cold mixing process involves the simple blending of flavoring essences and artificial coloring in commercial alcohol , in similar fashion to most flavored vodkas and inexpensive liqueurs and cordials .	A second step can add color to the liquid using artificial or natural coloring .
They have a strong need for admiration , but lack feelings of empathy .	In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , NPD is defined as habitual grandiosity , need for admiration and lack of empathy .
Minna had died of a heart attack on 25 January 1866 in Dresden .	He died of a heart attack when he was staying in Venice .
Electronic cigarettes should have fewer toxic effects than traditional cigarettes , and evidence suggests they are safer than real cigarettes , and possibly as safe as other nicotine replacement products .	They are also researching if electronic cigarettes can be called a medical product .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has stated that the efficacy of electronic cigarettes as an aid in smoking cessation has not been demonstrated .	In 2008 , this attracted the attention of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) who said that these e-cigarettes were not proper nicotine replacement therapy and that this mis-information had to be taken away from any sites or advertisements saying that they were .
When activated the resistance wire ( or coil ) quickly heats up thus turning the liquid into a vapor , which is then inhaled by the user .	This design produced a smoke-like cold vapor that could be inhaled and provides a vehicle for nicotine delivery into the bloodstream via the lungs .
The market for lupin seeds for human food is currently small , but researchers believe it has great potential .	The seeds are carried by car tires and water flow , and unfortunately , some tourist shops in the major tourist areas have been reported to have sold packets of lupin seeds to tourists , with the instructions to plant , water and watch them grow into a giant beanstalk .
Reeve used his celebrity status for good causes .	Reeve died at age 52 on October 10 , 2004 from heart problems caused by an infection .
Barber said : Jordan died in Los Angeles , California , from a heart attack on February 4 , 1975 .	Louis Jordan ( \* July 8 , 1908 in Brinkley , Arkansas ; † February 4 , 1975 in Los Angeles , California ) was an American jazz , blues and rhythm & blues musician , songwriter and bandleader .
Once vaccinated , a patient develops antibodies that make him\/her immune to cowpox , but they also develop immunity to the smallpox virus , or Variola virus .	Smallpox is caused by the related Variola virus .
The cowpox vaccinations and smallpox vaccine proved so successful that in 1980 , the World Health Organization announced that smallpox was the first disease to be eradicated by vaccination efforts worldwide .	Cowpox is a disease .
At some point , the virus in use was no longer cowpox , but vaccinia .	Vaccinia is similar to cowpox , but not the same .
This then lead to the next incarnation , `` true animal vaccine , '' which used the same process but began with naturally-occuring cowpox virus , and not the humanized form .	After infection with the disease , the body ( usually ) gains the ability recognize the similar smallpox virus from its antigens and so is able to fight the smallpox disease much more efficiently .
His patients who had contracted and recovered from the similar but milder cowpox ( mainly milkmaids ) , seemed to be immune not only to further cases of cowpox , but also to smallpox .	Some of his patients had gotten cowpox , and recovered from it .
The term cowpox refers to both the skin disease and the virus that causes it .	The virus that causes cowpox was used to perform the first successful vaccination against another disease .
To maintain the vaccine in an available state during the voyage , the physician recruited 22 young boys who had never had cowpox or smallpox before , aged three to nine years , from the orphanages of Spain .	People ( or animals ) who have the disease have red blisters .
The arm-to-arm method of transfer of the cowpox vaccine was also used to distribute Jenner 's vaccine throughout the Spanish Empire .	Later , and still today , another vaccine was used : vaccinia .
Cowpox is more commonly found in animals other than bovines , such as rodents .	The disease can be spread by touch from cows to humans .
She disclosed that she had been diagnosed with the condition in 2006 and that the problem dated back to 2000 .	She said that she had the condition in 2006 and that problems with her ear started in 2000 .
In a January 8 , 2008 entry on her TeamAyu blog , Hamasaki announced that an inoperable condition , possibly tinnitus or Ménière 's disease , had caused complete deafness in her left ear .	This was because of tinnitus or Ménière 's disease .
Modern scholars believe that the plague killed up to 5,000 people per day in Constantinople at the peak of the pandemic .	At its height , the plague killed 10,000 people in Constantinople everyday .
The plague may also have contributed to the success of the Arabs a few generations later in the Byzantine-Arab Wars .	It also may have contributed to the success of the Muslim conquests .
The plague 's social and cultural impact during the period of Justinian has been compared to that of the Black Death .	Its social and cultural impact is comparable to that of the Black Death .
The outbreak in Constantinople was thought to have been carried to the city by infected rats on grain boats arriving from Egypt .	Ships carrying grain , which the city imported , had many rats that carried the plague .
The initial plague ultimately killed perhaps 40 % of the city 's inhabitants and caused the deaths of up to a quarter of the human population of the eastern Mediterranean .	It eventually killed 40 % of the city 's population .
In 1931 , at the urging of his father , Byrd enrolled at Virginia Military Institute ; two years later he transferred to the University of Virginia .	He studied at the Virginia Military Institute and at the University of Virginia .
Many fire officials recommend that every building , including residences , have fire sprinkler systems .	A fire truck usually carries the same equipment as an ambulance does .
The search is divided into two stages , the primary and secondary .	A rescue truck 's main job is to responds to car wrecks , collapsed buildings , search and rescue , stuck elevators and other emergencies .
On the evening of 15 January 1936 , the King took to his bedroom at Sandringham House complaining of a cold ; he never again left the room alive .	Seriously ill , on the evening of 15 January 1936 , the King took to his bedroom at Sandringham House feeling unwell ; he died on the 20th January after he euthanized with morphine and cocaine to spare him pain .
In most of these cases the subjects then feel themselves awake ; about half of them noted a feeling of sleep paralysis .	There is no sleep paralysis so they can sometimes talk about it at the same time .
Stibine binds to the hemoglobin of red blood cells , causing them to be destroyed by the body .	Stibine is used to dope semiconductors with antimony .
To treat premature ejaculation , Masters and Johnson developed the `` squeeze technique '' .	Premature ejaculation ( also known as PE ) is a condition affecting many men .
Other self-treatments include during the act thrusting more slowly , withdrawing the penis altogether , purposefully ejaculating before sexual intercourse , and using more than one condom .	It is when during sexual intercourse ( sex ) the male can not stop himself from ejaculating after starting sex .
Franklin Pierce was the fifth of eight children born to Benjamin and his second wife , Anna Kendrick ( his first wife Elizabeth Andrews died in childbirth , leaving a daughter ) .	Franklin Pierce Jr. died only three days after birth ; and Frank Robert Pierce died at four years of age from epidemic typhus ; just two months before his inauguration , Franklin Pierce and his family boarded a train bound for Boston .
The Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011 ( H.R. 1981 ) is a United States bill designed with the stated intention of increasing enforcement of laws related to the prosecution of child pornography and child sexual exploitation offenses .	On July 28 , 2011 , the United States House Judiciary Committee passed the Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011 ( HR 1981 ) .
The second form is property dualism that says that body and soul are different properties of the same body .	For example it is a form of dualism to say that a thing is either hot or cold , good or bad , mine or somebody else 's , with no allowance for possible states in between .
1849 was the first year of large scale cholera epidemics in the United States , and thousands are thought to have died along the trail on their way to California-most buried in unmarked graves in Kansas and Nebraska .	People went to Oregon for many reasons .
Barium sulfate is used as an insoluble heavy additive to oil well drilling fluid , and in purer form , as X-ray radiocontrast agents for imaging the human gastrointestinal tract .	The barium sulfate builds up inside the body accumulating in organ systems .
She later said she `` used to quite like bulimia '' , but was able to overcome the illness .	She had bulimia and Depression .
In a 2003 interview with Lesbian News magazine , she said that she had come to see Xena and Gabrielle 's relationship as gay after viewing the series finale , though she has also stated on several occasions that she was undecided on the nature of the relationship while playing the role .	Lawless stated that after the series finale , where Gabrielle revives Xena with a mouth-to-mouth water transfer filmed to look like a full kiss , she had come to believe that Xena and Gabrielle 's relationship was `` definitely gay ... there was always a ` well , she might be or she might not be ' but when there was that drip of water passing between their lips in the very final scene , that cemented it for me '' .
People diagnosed with schizophrenia are more likely to have been born in winter or spring ( at least in the northern hemisphere ) , which may be a result of increased rates of viral exposures in utero .	People who have schizophrenia are more likely to have been born in winter or spring ( at least in the northern half of the world ) .
They can include delusions , disordered thoughts and speech , and tactile , auditory , visual , olfactory and gustatory hallucinations , typically regarded as manifestations of psychosis .	Schizophrenia is a mental disorder that may cause delusions , paranoia , hallucinations , disordered thinking and behavior , and catatonia .
Other drugs may be used only as coping mechanisms by individuals who have schizophrenia to deal with depression , anxiety , boredom , and loneliness .	Brain structure People who have schizophrenia have differences in their brain structure compared to those who do not have the disorder .
Impairment in social cognition is associated with schizophrenia , as are symptoms of paranoia .	There are various medical conditions , other psychiatric conditions and drug abuse related reactions that may mimic the symptoms of schizophrenia .
In 40 % of men and 23 % of women diagnosed with schizophrenia , the condition manifested itself before the age of 19 .	People who have a family history of schizophrenia and who experienced a brief period of psychotic symptoms have a 20 - to 40-percent chance of being diagnosed one year later .
Positive symptoms are those that most individuals do not normally experience but are present in people with schizophrenia .	Positive symptoms are thoughts , behaviors , or sensory perceptions - like hearing voices that are not really there - that a person with a mental disorder has but healthy people do not have .
There appears to be overlap in the genetics of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder .	In the largest study of its kind , it was found that schizophrenia , autism , major depression , and bipolar disorder and ADHD , are genetically linked .
Mammary intercourse involves the man placing his erect penis in the woman 's cleavage and thrusting between her breasts , while the breasts are squeezed around the penile shaft , thus creating a tight area for the stimulation .	In most instances , this sexual activity involves the man placing his penis between his partner 's breasts .
One sex worker said that mammary intercourse was one alternative used ; mammary intercourse performed by a woman with large breasts felt to the client like penetrative vaginal sex .	Mammary intercourse is sometimes combined with oral sex ( blowjob ) .
A study of the condom usage habits of New Zealand 's sex workers said that they offered various safe sex alternatives to vaginal sex to clients who refused to wear a condom .	It is also done as a safe sex alternative to anal or vaginal sexual intercourse ( fucking ) .
Activists and crew members used gas masks .	The Israeli solders said that the activists wore gas masks and ski masks .
In September 1760 , a year after arriving in Madrid , Maria Amalia died from tuberculosis at the Buen Retiro Palace outside the capital .	A popular queen , she died of tuberculosis at the Buen Retiro Palace outside the capital having been a heavy smoker .
Mary died at Kensington Palace shortly after midnight on the morning of 28 December .	Mary died of smallpox at Kensington Palace on 28 December 1694 .
Tragedy struck the Yankees late in the year as manager Huggins died of erysipelas , a bacterial skin infection , on September 25 , only ten days after he had last led the team .	Ruth died of throat cancer on August 16 , 1948 .
Weber was already suffering from tuberculosis when he visited London ; he died at the house of Sir George Smart during the night of 4\/5 June 1826 .	He was suffering from tuberculosis , but needed money to support his family .
Wulfhere survived the defeat , but died in 675 , possibly of disease , and Æthelred became king .	He succeeded his brother Wulfhere when he died in 675 .
After two years ' absence , Sinatra returned to the concert stage on January 12 , 1950 , in Hartford , Connecticut .	Sinatra died on May 14 , 1998 at 10:50 pm at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles , California , after suffering a heart attack .
Most cases of adenocarcinoma are associated with smoking ; however , among people who have smoked fewer than 100 cigarettes in their lifetimes ( `` never-smokers '' ) , adenocarcinoma is the most common form of lung cancer .	The large majority of people who get lung cancer have smoked for many years .
Nearly 40 % of lung cancers are adenocarcinoma , which usually originates in peripheral lung tissue .	Lung cancer kills 1.3 million people each year , more than any other cancer .
He died of diabetes in Venice on 19 August 1929 , and is buried on the nearby island of San Michele .	He died of diabetes .
This mystical calling endows her with dramatically increased physical strength , endurance , agility , accelerated healing , intuition , and a limited degree of clairvoyance , usually in the form of prophetic dreams .	She also had greater intuition , and some ability of clairvoyance , usually in the form of dreams that tell the future .
Sadism involves gaining pleasure from seeing others undergo pain or discomfort .	Sadism is a medical condition in which people get pleasure from humiliating or hurting others .
Sadistic Personality Disorder is found more often in males than in females .	Some sadists are severely perverted or have personality disorders , and wish to act out their sadistic fantasies for real .
It was proposed to be included because of adults who possessed sadistic personality traits but were not being labeled , even though their victims were being labeled with a self-defeating personality disorder .	Nowadays any person who enjoys being cruel to others can be called `` sadistic , '' even if they get no sexual excitement from what they do .
For instance , continual connection of a particular stimulus with sexual enjoyment or of happiness with the anguish of others can cause sadism or sadomasochism .	When a person finds pleasure in being hurt or humiliated , their condition is called Masochism .
This theory of ecological decline is supported by archaeological remains that show a rise in the percentage of juvenile skeletons with evidence of malnutrition during the 6th century .	There also seem to be more skeletons of young people , and more evidence of malnutrition in city in the 6th century .
The causes of nosebleeds can generally be divided into two categories , local and systemic factors , although a significant number of nosebleeds occur with no obvious cause .	Sometimes , people get nosebleeds in the back of their noses , called posterior nosebleeds .
Franklin 's three-year exploration of the northern coast of Canada in search of the Northwest Passage had ended in disaster amid accusations of murder and cannibalism , with 11 of the 20 members of the group killed and the survivors reduced to eating lichen , their own boots , and the remains of rotten carcasses abandoned by wolves .	The people that were not killed had to eat lichen , their own boots , and the remains of dead animals left by wolves .
Nicholas Roerich died of a cardiac arrest on December 13 , 1947 .	He died on December 13 , 1947 .
Social conditions such as poverty , social isolation and inability to get or prepare preferred foods can cause unintentional weight loss , and this may be particularly common in older people .	Some other infectious diseases also cause unintentional weight loss , including endocarditis .
Disease-related malnutrition can be considered in four categories : Weight loss issues related to specific diseases include : Medical treatment can directly or indirectly cause weight loss , impairing treatment effectiveness and recovery that can lead to further weight loss in a vicious cycle .	Also , a person might eat less or more healthy food to have a weight loss .
Unintentional weight loss can be the characteristic leading to diagnosis of diseases such as cancer and type 1 diabetes .	It can also be a sign of tuberculosis .
In the advanced stages of progressive disease , metabolism can change so that they lose weight even when they are getting what is normally regarded as adequate nutrition and the body can not compensate .	There are many diets and exercises to lose weight .
Hypercholesterolemia ( also spelled hypercholesterolemia ) is the presence of high levels of cholesterol in the blood .	Hypercholesterolemia means that the cholesterol level is too high in the blood .
It is a form of `` hyperlipidemia '' ( elevated levels of lipids in the blood ) and `` hyperlipoproteinemia '' ( elevated levels of lipoproteins in the blood ) .	So the blood level of triglycerides ( a kind of fat ) is used instead .
Lipoproteins are classified by their density : very low density lipoprotein ( VLDL ) , intermediate density lipoprotein ( IDL ) , low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) and high density lipoprotein ( HDL ) .	High blood levels of VLDL ( very low density lipoprotein ) also causes more atherosclerosis .
An occlusion of an artery supplying the brain can cause a stroke .	If the blocked artery brought blood to the brain , people can have a stroke .
Overweight or obese individuals can lower blood cholesterol by losing weight - on average a kilogram of weight loss can reduce LDL cholesterol by 0.8 mg\/dL .	However , statins are not as good at increasing the HDL ( good ) cholesterol .
Reducing saturated dietary fat is recommended to reduce total blood cholesterol and LDL in adults .	This causes them to take up less cholesterol also , which lowers blood levels of cholesterol .
Some types of hypercholesterolemia lead to specific physical findings .	There are other kinds of medicines to treat hypercholesterolemia .
Alternatively smaller plaques may rupture and cause a clot to form and obstruct blood flow .	Angina is when the blood flow is low but not totally blocked .
With respect to quality of life there is limited evidence of improvement when statins are used in people without existing cardiovascular disease ( i.e. for primary prevention ) .	Statins can also cause liver problems .
If the hypercholesterolemia is hereditary ( familial hypercholesterolemia ) , there is more often a family history of premature , earlier onset atherosclerosis .	Sometimes if a doctor thinks a person has atherosclerosis she may do tests to find atherosclerosis before it causes symptoms of ischemia or infarction .
Elevated levels of non-HDL cholesterol and LDL in the blood may be a consequence of diet , obesity , inherited ( genetic ) diseases ( such as LDL receptor mutations in familial hypercholesterolemia ) , or the presence of other diseases such as diabetes and an underactive thyroid .	This is a good effect because diabetes and hypercholesterolemia cause some of the same problems .
Various clinical practice guidelines have addressed the treatment of hypercholesterolemia .	Doctors often measure these different types to see if someone has hypercholesterolemia .
Many individuals with bulimia nervosa also have an additional psychiatric disorder .	Usually girls have bulimia , but boys can have it too .
Bulimia also has negative effects on the sufferer 's dental health due to the acid passed through the mouth from frequent vomiting causing acid erosion , mainly on the posterior dental surface .	Sometimes bulimia can cause difficulty breathing .
Bulimics are much more likely than non-bulimics to have an affective disorder , such as depression or general anxiety disorder : A 1985 Columbia University study on female bulimics at New York State Psychiatric Institute found 70 % had suffered depression some time in their lives ( as opposed to 25.8 % for adult females in a control sample from the general population ) , rising to 88 % for all affective disorders combined .	People with obsessive compulsive disorder or perfectionism are also more likely to have bulimia .
The inner ear consists of the cochlea and several non-auditory structures .	The inner ear is made mostly of the cochlea .
Simple bromide salts ( such as sodium bromide ) are also sometimes used in hot tubs and spas as mild germicidal agents , using the action of an added oxidizing agent ( such as hydrogen peroxide ) to generate in situ hypobromite , in a similar fashion to the action of peroxidase on bromide in eosinophils .	Some white blood cells oxidize bromide to hypobromite with peroxide and use the hypobromite to kill germs .
A study of these microbes found that desert farming hampers desertification by establishing islands of fertility allowing farmers to achieve increased yields despite the adverse environmental conditions .	This is called desertification .
Hoffman was arrested August 28 , 1973 on drug charges for intent to sell and distribute cocaine .	He was arrested following a conviction for selling cocaine .
The show also dealt with prostitution , mixed-race relationships , shoplifting , sexism , divorce , domestic violence and mugging .	There are many story lines , including drug abuse , rape , racism , domestic violence , murder , kidnapping , prostitution , theft , ( senile dementia , arson , and runaway children .
Using uniformitarianism , which states that one can not make an appeal to any force or phenomenon which can not presently be observed ( see catastrophism ) , Darwin theorized that the evolutionary process must occur gradually , not in saltations , since saltations are not presently observed , and extreme deviations from the usual phenotypic variation would be more likely to be selected against .	So Darwin thought evolutionary must occur gradually , not in jumps ( ` saltations ' ) , since we do not see big changes going on today .
Although Chapman has never disclosed her sexual orientation , in the mid-1990s she dated writer Alice Walker .	She has never said what her sexuality is , but she dated Alice Walker in the mid 1990s .
Hawking has a motor neuron disease related to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , a condition that has progressed over the years .	He has ALS ( Lou Gehrig 's disease ) , and because of that he can not move or talk very well .
Todd wrote that she experienced anxiety , depression , and panic disorder due to the experience .	Todd then got depression and panic disorder .
Khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease .	He died of heart disease on 11 September 1971 .
In 1969 , Stravinsky moved to the Essex House in New York , where he lived until his death in 1971 at age 88 of heart failure .	In 1969 he moved with his family to New York where he died two years later .
Fischer flew to Iceland , where he lived until his death on January 17 , 2008 .	Fischer died of renal failure on January 17 , 2008 .
Exposure at high concentrations , even for less than a minute , causes the gas to attack the eyes and mucous membranes ; this causes cold-like symptoms for at least a few days afterwards .	This reaction also makes aluminium hydroxide .
The thalami are parts of the forebrain superior to the midbrain , near the center of the brain , with nerve fibers projecting out to the cerebral cortex in all directions .	It is between the cerebral cortex and midbrain .
The two thalami surround the third ventricle .	The thalamus sits above the hypothalamus , and below the cerebral cortex .
In the light of his self-analysis , Freud abandoned the theory that every neurosis can be traced back to the effects of infantile sexual abuse , now arguing that infantile sexual scenarios still had a causative function , but it did not matter whether they were real or imagined and that in either case they became pathogenic only when acting as repressed memories .	Freud famously proposed that unconscious memories of infantile sexual abuse were at the root of the psychoneuroses .
They have operations in the UK , North America , Europe and Asia Pacific providing private finance for accommodation , health care , transport , waste management and renewable energy projects .	John Laing now has operations in the UK , North America , Europe and Asia .
Deficiencies within this level of Maslow 's hierarchy - due to hospitalism , neglect , shunning , ostracism , etc. - can impact the individual 's ability to form and maintain emotionally significant relationships in general , such as : According to Maslow , humans need to feel a sense of belonging and acceptance among their social groups , regardless if these groups are large or small .	Deficiency needs deal with the bottom for levels of Maslow 's hierarchy .
If these `` deficiency needs '' are not met - with the exception of the most fundamental ( physiological ) need - there may not be a physical indication , but the individual will feel anxious and tense .	When growth needs are met , individuals want to continue achieving these needs .
The most fundamental and basic four layers of the pyramid contain what Maslow called `` deficiency needs '' or `` d-needs '' : esteem , friendship and love , security , and physical needs .	Maslow predicts that after some time without the more basic need ( the job ) , the person would reconsider and decide to go back to his job , even if it means that he loses his self-respect .
In the absence of physical safety - due to war , natural disaster , family violence , childhood abuse , etc. - people may ( re - ) experience post-traumatic stress disorder or transgenerational trauma .	For example , a child may come to school lacking lower level needs .
In the absence of economic safety - due to economic crisis and lack of work opportunities - these safety needs manifest themselves in ways such as a preference for job security , grievance procedures for protecting the individual from unilateral authority , savings accounts , insurance policies , reasonable disability accommodations , etc. .	Growth needs are the opposite of deficiency needs .
To account for different types of emotional experiences , James proposed that stimuli trigger activity in the autonomic nervous system , which in turn produces an emotional experience in the brain .	These are the hormone system , the autonomic nervous system and the ` lower ' brain centres ( hindbrain and midbrain ) .
The seminal vesicles produce a yellowish viscous fluid rich in fructose and other substances that makes up about 70 % of human semen .	It is usually a white or yellowish , sticky substance made up of sperm ( male cells for sexual reproduction ) floating in a fluid called seminal plasma that has water and different chemicals in it .
The components and contributions of semen are as follows : A 1992 World Health Organization report described normal human semen as having a volume of 2 ml or greater , pH of 7.2 to 8.0 , sperm concentration of 20 × 106 spermatozoa\/ml or more , sperm count of 40 × 106 spermatozoa per ejaculate or more , and motility of 50 % or more with forward progression ( categories a and b ) of 25 % or more with rapid progression ( category a ) within 60 minutes of ejaculation .	A 1992 World Health Organization book said that an ejaculation of normal human semen has : The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things .
The normal environment of the vagina is a hostile one for sperm cells , as it is very acidic ( from the native microflora producing lactic acid ) , viscous , and patrolled by immune cells .	The inside of a woman ' a vagina does not suit sperm cells as it is acidic .
The components in the seminal plasma attempt to compensate for this hostile environment .	This is called human seminal plasma hypersensitivity .
Semen is produced and originates from the seminal vesicle , which is located in the pelvis .	Semen is later shown floating on the water .
It is postulated that the initial clotting helps keep the semen in the vagina , while liquefaction frees the sperm to make their journey to the ova .	Sperm , also called spermatozoa , are made by a man 's testicles and mature ( grow up ) in the epididymis .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as trisomy 21 , is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21 .	Down syndrome ( also called Down 's syndrome or trisomy 21 ; old name mongoloid idiocy ) is a genetic disorder .
People with Down syndrome have a lower risk of hardening of the arteries .	People with Down syndrome often have a different shape of eyes than most people .
People with Down syndrome may have some or all of the following physical characteristics : a small chin , slanted eyes , poor muscle tone , a flat nasal bridge , a single crease of the palm , and a protruding tongue due to a small mouth and large tongue .	Babies with Down syndrome can be identified at birth because they may have a specific set of physical features , including narrow eyes , and flat nose-bridge , smaller mouths ( which can result in tongue protrusion or what looks like a large tongue ) , and shorter fingers .
About 92 % of pregnancies in the United Kingdom and Europe with a diagnosis of Down syndrome are terminated .	In the United Kingdom and Europe 92 % of fetuses with Down 's syndrome are aborted .
When non pregnant people are asked if they would have a termination if their fetus tested positive 23-33 % said yes , when high risk pregnant women were asked 46-86 % said yes , and when women who screen positive are asked 89-97 % say yes .	People who are pregnant can be told whether their fetus has Down syndrome .
This syndrome causes about a third of cases of intellectual disability .	Idiocy meant intellectual disability .
Most individuals with Down syndrome have mild ( IQ : 50-70 ) or moderate ( IQ : 35-50 ) intellectual disability with some cases having severe ( IQ : 20-35 ) difficulties .	A few people with the condition have severe learning difficulties .
Commonly individuals with Down syndrome have better language understanding than ability to speak .	He called it mongoloid idiocy because he thought that children with Down syndrome had faces like that of Blumenbach 's Mongolian race .
Between 20 and 50 % have strabismus , in which the two eyes do not move together .	Children who have this condition take more time to learn new things .
Hearing and vision disorders occur in more than half of people with Down syndrome .	The Down Syndrome Association of Los Angeles keeps a list of people with Down syndrome with roles in TV and movies .
Down syndrome is the most common chromosome abnormality in humans , occurring in about 1 per 1000 babies born each year .	Of every 800 to 1000 babies that are born , one is diagnosed with Down syndrome .
In most instances of designer drug discovery , the exploration of small modifications to known active drugs-such as their structural analogs , stereoisomers , and derivatives-yields drugs that may differ greatly in effects from their `` basis '' drug ( e.g. showing increased potency , or decreased side effects ) .	In the United States the Controlled Substances Act and the Controlled Substances Analogue Enforcement of 1986 both tried to make it a crime to make , sell , or own any drug that was chemically similar to an illegal drug .
There are millions of protein and nucleotide sequences known .	A DNA sequence is the sequence of nucleotides in a DNA molecule .
Perspiring due to nerves and a lingering cold , the tenor clutched a handkerchief throughout the début .	Perspiring due to nerves and a cold , he kept a handkerchief in his hand all the way through the concert .
Taft 's younger brother Horace Taft was best man .	When she suffered from stroke , her daughter Helen Taft Manning left college for a year to look after the social life at the White House .
Group founder Ari Up died unexpectedly in October 2010 .	It broke up again in 2010 when Ari Up died of cancer .
In vertebrates , the pubic bone is the ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis .	The pubic bone is one of the bones that make up the pelvis .
He had to undergo Larynx surgery on March 30 to remove a cyst that had formed on his vocal cords .	After the first European tour , Bill lost his voice and found out he had cyst on his vocal cords .
People with kidney disease , hyperuricemia , or gout should not take aspirin because it inhibits the kidneys ' ability to excrete uric acid , and thus may exacerbate these conditions .	People with lung , kidney disease , Gout , Hyperuricemia ( high amounts of Uric Acid in the blood ) , Hemophilia ( a blood clotting disorder ) , Diabetes or high blood pressure should not take aspirin except on the advice of a qualified medical professional .
Reye 's syndrome , a rare but severe illness characterized by acute encephalopathy and fatty liver , can occur when children or adolescents are given aspirin for a fever or other illnesses or infections .	Children taking aspirin can develop Reye 's syndrome which causes the liver to become fatty and not work properly and also the brain to become enlarged .
Because the platelet patch can become too large and also block blood flow , locally and downstream , aspirin is also used long-term , at low doses , to help prevent heart attacks , strokes , and blood clot formation in people at high risk of developing blood clots .	It also has an Anti-Platelet effect - it reduces the number of Platelets in the blood which reduces blood clotting - in that function it is used to prevent Heart Attacks .
In addition , aspirin induces the formation of NO-radicals in the body , which have been shown in mice to have an independent mechanism of reducing inflammation .	It has many uses , but is most commonly used as a pain killer , or used to reduce Fever or Inflammation .
Aspirin should not be taken by people who are allergic to ibuprofen or naproxen , or who have salicylate intolerance or a more generalized drug intolerance to NSAIDs , and caution should be exercised in those with asthma or NSAID-precipitated bronchospasm .	People with Asthma where attacks are brought about by aspirin should avoid using any Anti-inflammatory drugs based on it .
Viruses can be placed in one of the seven following groups : Satellites depend on co-infection of a host cell with a helper virus for productive multiplication .	Similar viruses are first put into `` families '' .
Viral classification starts at the level of order and continues as follows , with the taxon suffixes given in italics : Order ( - virales ) Family ( - viridae ) Subfamily ( - virinae ) Genus ( - virus ) Species Species names generally take the form of ( Disease ) virus .	This family name always ends with '' - viridae .
Other classifications are determined by the disease caused by the virus or its morphology , neither of which are satisfactory due to different viruses either causing the same disease or looking very similar .	Classification also helps scientists to remember viruses and the diseases they cause .
Cassie is depicted as being eccentric and suffering from several mental disorders - most notably , anorexia nervosa - and multiple issues , including low self-esteem , suicidal ideation , and drug addiction .	She suffers from anorexia nervosa , self harm , and low self esteem .
The approaches used to analyze the behavioral aspect of personality are known as behavioral theories or learning-conditioning theories .	Scales assess a single aspect of the personality , while inventories are used to measure several distinct aspects of the personality .
According to this theory , people 's behavior is formed by processes such as operant conditioning .	Social learning theory suggests that the personality is shaped by our experiences with relationships , our environment , and the social world in general .
Early in January he reported continued drowsiness , which he felt was a sign of increasing weakness .	It was a long poem which described life in the country as he had known it .
He died on September 29 , 2010 at the age of 44 .	It was reported that he had been in a coma for four days before his family had life support removed and he died on September 29 , 2010 .
In humans , the sacrum ( \/ ˈsækrəm \/ or \/ ˈseɪkrəm \/ ; plural : sacrums or sacra ) is a large , triangular bone at the base of the spine and at the upper and back part of the pelvic cavity , where it is inserted like a wedge between the two hip bones .	It fits like a wedge between the two hip bones .
Substance dependence is the preferred term today when describing drug-related disorders whereas the use of the term drug habituation has declined substantially .	Habituation need not be conscious .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes , and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .	Prokaryotic ribosomes are different from eukaryotic ribosomes .
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and assembled into proteins .	The vesicles will then bring the proteins to other organelles or even the outside of the cell .
The hospital provided care for victims of yellow fever in the area .	The hospital helped people with yellow fever in the area .
Vertebrate animals have developed complex immune systems , which can target parasites , such as the Immunoglobulin E antibodies produced by humans in response to helminth infection .	World-wide , the most serious cause of human death by a parasite is malaria .
However , as the head coach of the Miami Dolphins , Cameron helped Ronnie Brown lead the entire NFL in total yards from scrimmage over the first seven games of the season before a season-ending knee injury .	Cameron was hired as the head coach of the Miami Dolphins before the 2007 season .
In females , breasts are a manifestation of higher levels of estrogen ; estrogen also widens the pelvis and increases the amount of body fat in hips , thighs , buttocks , and breasts .	In women , those characteristics usually cited are more prominent breasts , lips , eyes , hair , wider hips , more fat , and generally a higher voice .
While staying at the Grand Hotel et de Milan in Milan , Verdi suffered a stroke on 21 January 1901 .	He died in of a stroke in Milan in 1901 .
Lactose-intolerant individuals can sometimes tolerate yogurt better than other dairy products , because the lactose in the milk is converted to glucose and galactose , and partially fermented to lactic acid , by the bacterial culture .	The lactose in the milk becomes lactic acid when it is fermented .
Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid , which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and its characteristic tang .	Lactic acid acts on the protein in the milk to make yoghurt thick and sour .
In 1905 , he described it as consisting of a spherical and a rod-like lactic acid bacteria .	In 1905 he said that it contained a round and a rod-like lactic acid bacteria .
Believing Lactobacillus to be essential for good health , Mechnikov worked to popularize yogurt as a foodstuff throughout Europe .	Mechnikov believed that Lactobacillus was needed for good health , and worked to make yoghurt popular through Europe .
The two styles of yogurt commonly found in the grocery store are set type yogurt and Swiss style yogurt .	In the study , obese people who ate 3 servings of low-fat yoghurt a day lost 22 % more weight than the control group who only cut back on calories and did not have extra calcium .
Sesame oil is a source of vitamin E. Vitamin E is an antioxidant and has been correlated with lowering cholesterol levels .	Through the ages , the seeds have been a source of food and oil .
Sesame oil is traded in any of the forms described above : Cold-pressed sesame oil is available in Western health shops .	Sesame oil can go bad if it is exposed to air and sunlight .
There are many variations in the color of sesame oil : cold-pressed sesame oil is pale yellow , while Indian sesame oil ( gingelly or til oil ) is golden , and East Asian sesame oils are commonly a dark brown color .	Usually a bottle of sesame oil has 40 ~ 55 % .
Sesame oil can be extracted by a number of methods , depending on the materials and equipment available .	Usage dates back to 3000 B.C. Over 5,000 years ago , the Chinese burned sesame oil not only as a light source but also to make soot for their ink-blocks .
It is in fact the rarest of the three plague varieties ; the other forms are bubonic and pneumonic plague .	Septicemic plague is the rarest of the three plagues that struck Europe in 1348 , the other forms are bubonic and pneumonic plague .
Septicemic plague is caused by horizontal and direct transmission .	Septicemic plague can cause the blood to form small clots through the body .
Like some other forms of gram-negative sepsis , septicemic plague can cause disseminated intravascular coagulation , and is almost always fatal when untreated ( the mortality rate in medieval times was 99-100 percent ) .	The death rate in medieval times was 99-100 percent .
Human Yersinia infections most commonly result from the bite of an infected flea or a occasionally an infected mammal , but like most bacterial systemic diseases , the disease may be transmitted through an opening in the skin or by inhaling infectious droplets of moisture from sneezes or coughs .	This disease is caused mainly by the bite of an infected rodent or insect In rare cases it can also enter the body through an opening in the skin or by cough from another infected human .
In both cases septicemic plague need not be the result , and in particular , not the initial result , but it occasionally happens that bubonic plague for example leads to infection of the blood , and septicemic plague results .	In septicemic plague the bacteria grow quickly in the blood , causing severe sepsis .
The pancreas as an exocrine gland helps out the digestive system .	The pancreas belongs to two systems of the body : the digestive system for its role in breaking down nutrients , and the endocrine system for producing hormones .
The pancreas develops as two buds on either side of the duodenum .	The pancreas is behind the stomach and is on the left side of the human body .
The islets of Langerhans play an imperative role in glucose metabolism and regulation of blood glucose concentration .	The Islets of Langerhans are a small part ( 2 % ) of the total cells in the pancreas .
The pancreas is an endocrine organ that lies in the abdomen , specifically the upper , left abdomen .	The pancreas releases these hormones : The pancreas releases many different enzymes to help digestion :
The pancreas is also the main source of enzymes for digesting fats ( lipids ) and proteins .	So , the pancreas works to keep the level of chemicals in balance in the body .
As of 2011 he has raised more than # 1 million for research into childhood leukemia .	Since then , he has raised more than # 1,000,000 to pay for projects to help people with the disease and to try to find a cure for it .
ASPD falls under the dramatic\/erratic cluster of personality disorders .	ASPD is not the same as psychopathy .
Low levels of withdrawal and high levels of attention-seeking combined with low anxiety demonstrate `` social potency '' and `` stress immunity '' in psychopathy .	They are similar ; people with both conditions may show similar behaviors .
The APA 's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , fourth edition ( DSM-IV-TR ) , defines antisocial personality disorder ( in Axis II Cluster B ) : A ) There is a pervasive pattern of disregard for and violation of the rights of others occurring since age 15 years , as indicated by three or more of the following : B ) The individual is at least age 18 years .	According to the latest version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( the DSM-IV ) , a person has ASPD if they fit the following requirements : A. Since age 15 , the person has shown a pattern of not caring about and violating others ' rights .
It is a requirement of the ICD-10 that a diagnosis of any specific personality disorder also satisfies a set of general personality disorder criteria .	There is not one official , agreed-upon definition or set of diagnostic criteria for psychopathy , but most tools that measure psychopathy focus on personality characteristics as well as behaviors .
In their experiment , Luria and Delbrück inoculated a small number of bacteria ( Escherichia coli ) into separate culture tubes .	In their experiment , Luria and Delbrück grew bacteria in tubes .
It is often said , the reason was slow poisoning by British Government but later a medical team in Vienna diagnosed the disease as Morbus Pick , a rare incurable neurodegenerative disease .	It is often said , the reason was slow poisoning by British Government .
Transmitted by the sandfly , the protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania major may switch the strategy of the first immune defense from eating\/inflammation\/killing to eating\/no inflammation\/no killing of their host phagocyte ' and corrupt it for their own benefit .	Leishmania is a protist organism which causes Leishmaniasis .
Lipophosphoglycan is used by the parasite to promote its survival in the host and the mechanisms by which the parasite does this center around modulating the immune response of the host .	The parasite causes three kinds of disease .
For example peanut agglutinin binds a particular lipophosphoglycan found on the surface of the infective form of Leishmania major .	Leishmania have a lipophosphoglycan coat on the outside of the cell .
The most common complications of burns are related to infection .	There are 6 degrees of burns .
Following a burn , children may have significant psychological trauma and experience post-traumatic stress disorder .	People may get more powerful burns from high heat or radioactive items .
They are typically only recommended when the hemoglobin level falls below 60-80 g\/L ( 6-8 g\/dL ) due to the associated risk of complications .	They are usually Degree One to a minor Degree Two .
However , after that time , his declining health due to tuberculosis led to decline in his career .	However , he became ill with tuberculosis and had to stop work .
She remained unconscious for 10 days but survived , with permanent brain damage .	She was not killed but would remain in a coma ( a permanent sleep ) and suffered brain damage ( damage to the brain that stop the body from working properly ) .
Ingrid is arrested and sentenced to life in prison , leaving Astrid without parents and in need of foster care .	When Ingrid meets Astrid again , she is shocked at how Astrid has turned herself .
Tunicates contain a host of potentially useful chemical compounds , including : In the May 2007 issue of the FASEB Journal , researchers from Stanford University showed that tunicates can correct abnormalities over a series of generations , and they suggest that a similar regenerative process may be possible for humans .	A similar process might be possible for humans .
LSD can cause pupil dilation , reduced or increased appetite , and wakefulness .	LSD showed promise in the treatment of problems like alcoholism .
There is strong evidence that restricted access at so-called suicide hotspots , such as bridges and cliffs , reduces suicides , whereas other interventions such as placing signs or increasing surveillance at these sites appears less effective .	Putting up fences at bridges and cliffs reduces suicides .
Until the 1950s , the most common means of suicide in the UK was poisoning by gas inhalation .	Until the 1950s , the most common way of committing suicide in the UK was poisoning by inhaling coal gas .
Beyond just direct interventions to stop an impending suicide , methods also involve a ) treating the psychological and psychophysiological symptoms of depression , b ) improving the coping strategies of persons who would otherwise seriously consider suicide , c ) reducing the prevalence of conditions believed to constitute risk factors for suicide , and d ) giving people hope for a better life after current problems are resolved .	Another way to stop people from attempting suicide is to treat the symptoms of depression , help people to cope better , reduce the issues that put people at risk of attempting suicide , and give people hope for a better future .
However , he eventually becomes irritated after being kept awake by the constant screaming of Katsuro ( who , as the front part of the centipede , has his mouth free and is still able to speak ) and the realization that Jenny is dying from blood poisoning .	However , the doctor becomes very annoyed when he is kept awake by the screaming of his victims , and even more annoyed when Jenny starts to get ill from blood poisoning .
Six said that the surgeon initially wanted nothing to do with his film , as he felt Six was `` crazy '' and the idea had `` nothing to do with medical science . ''	The doctor then shoots him in the stomach , and as he is dying he shoots the doctor in the head .
Other factors affecting an individual 's life expectancy are genetic disorders , obesity , access to health care , diet , exercise , tobacco smoking , drug use and excessive alcohol use .	It is based on many factors such as country and life style including smoking , diet , and exercise .
While Article 6 does not prohibit the death penalty , it restricts its application to the `` most serious crimes '' and forbids it to be used on children and pregnant women or in a manner contrary to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide .	The other is to prohibit the death penalty .
On the March 24 , 2003 episode of Raw , Chief Morley announced that since the belts had not been defended in 30 days due to William Regal 's health problems , the duo would be stripped of the title .	Regal had health problems and Chief Morley said that they would be stripped of the titles .
However , unlike Edward 's syndrome and Down syndrome , the quad screen does not provide a reliable means of screening for this disorder .	Down syndrome and Edwards syndrome are more common .
Like all nondisjunction conditions ( such as Down syndrome and Edwards syndrome ) , the risk of this syndrome in the offspring increases with maternal age at pregnancy , with about 31 years being the average .	The average age for this syndrome is at 31 years .
Patau syndrome can also occur when part of chromosome 13 becomes attached to another chromosome ( translocated ) before or at conception in a Robertsonian translocation .	This is usually because of a problem that occurred during meiosis , but it can also be the result of Robertsonian translocation , a common rearrangement of chromosomes in humans .
This can occur either because each cell contains a full extra copy of chromosome 13 ( a disorder known as trisomy 13 or trisomy D ) , or because each cell contains an extra partial copy of the chromosome ( i.e. , Robertsonian translocation ) or because of mosaic Patau syndrome .	Patau Sydrome , also known as Trisomy 13 or Trisomy D is a problem with the chromosomes .
The forensic psychologist must always keep this possibility in mind .	A forensic psychologist keeps in mind that a defendant may have a mental disorder but also keeps in mind to watch for signs of deception , or errors in the defendant 's story .
Generally , a forensic psychologist is designated as an expert in a particular area of expertise .	At sentencing , a forensic psychologist may give evidence of mitigating circumstances arising from the acuused 's condition at the time .
Due to its bite-based form of infection , the bubonic plague is often the first step of a progressive series of illnesses .	The bubonic plague was the disease that caused the Black Death , which killed tens of millions of people in Europe , in the Middle Ages .
The most infamous symptom of bubonic plague is an infection of the lymph glands ( lymphadenitis ) , which become swollen and painful and are known as buboes .	There are different kinds of Bubonic plague .
Symptoms include : Other symptoms include heavy breathing , continuous vomiting of blood ( hematemesis ) , aching limbs , coughing , and extreme pain .	Symptoms of this disease include coughing , fever , and black spots on the skin .
Some definitions of what food waste consists of are based on other waste definitions ( e.g. agricultural waste ) and which materials do not meet their definitions .	There are many definitions of waste , and so there are also different definitions of food waste .
In developing and developed countries which operate either commercial or industrial agriculture , food waste can occur at most stages of the food industry and in significant amounts .	Research has been done to see where food waste occurred .
Economic factors , such as regulations and standards for quality and appearance , also cause food waste ; farmers often harvest selectively , preferring to leave crops not to standard in the field ( where they can be used as fertilizer or animal feed ) , since they would otherwise be discarded later .	Food is also wasted because it does not meet certain standards or regulations for quality and appearance As a result , certain crops that do not meet these standards are not harvested ; left in the field , they can provide fertilizer , or food for animals .
Food safety regulations are able to claim foods which contradict standards before they reach markets .	Certain regulations concerning the safety of foods cause food to be wasted , before it even reaches the market .
Food waste continues in the post-harvest stage , but the amounts of post-harvest loss involved are relatively unknown and difficult to estimate .	Large amounts of food waste can occur at any stage in the process of producing food .
Definitions of food waste vary , among other things , in what food waste consists of , how it is produced , and where or what it is discarded from or generated by .	The definitions of food waste can vary in the following ways : The definitions are made more complex , because certain kinds of waste are defined in reference to other kinds of waste .
Food waste or food loss is food material that is discarded or unable to be used .	It is unknown how much food waste occurs during food processing .
Fauré died in Paris from pneumonia on 4 November 1924 at the age of 79 .	He died in Paris from pneumonia in 1924 and was given a state funeral .
The new policy was implemented on all Hy-Vee stores , even in states such as Nebraska , South Dakota , Kansas , and Missouri that do not protect gay individuals .	Two-time National Football League MVP Kurt Warner once worked at a Hy-Vee Store in Cedar Falls , Iowa .
The early work of the founder of anthroposophy , Rudolf Steiner , culminated in his Philosophy of Freedom ( also translated as The Philosophy of Spiritual Activity and Intuitive Thinking as a Spiritual Path ) .	It is said to be a philosophy of freedom .
Brummell died penniless and insane from syphilis at Le Bon Sauveur Asylum on the outskirts of Caen in 1840 .	He died penniless and insane from strokes in Caen in 1840 .
On 24 March 1950 , his eyes were infected by trachoma .	He was born on 14 January 1950 .
Admissions are restricted to the four types of disabled students-visually impaired , hearing impaired , mobility impaired , and mentally impaired-as defined by the Disability Act ( 1995 ) of the Government of India .	The permission to enter into the university is limited to only four types of disabled students - those who are blind , or have difficulty in hearing , having difficulty in walking or having some mental illness , as defined in the Disability Act ( 1995 ) of the Government of India .
The woman applied a paste of myrobalan ( disambiguation needed ) to Giridhar 's eyes to burst the lumps , but his eyes started bleeding , resulting in the loss of his eyesight .	She dropped a hot medicine into his eyes to break the Trachoma lumps , but his eyes started bleeding and he became blind .
In the last years of his life , he was afflicted with Parkinson 's disease and prostate cancer , and became less active , although he continued to work at his law office until a few months before his death at the age of 80 .	He died of prostate cancer and Parkinson 's disease in Montreal on September 28 , 2000 .
On 4 January 2008 , Suharto was taken to the Pertamina hospital , Jakarta with complications arising from a weak heart , swelling of limbs and stomach , and partial renal failure .	He died at Pertamina Hospital in Jakarta , Indonesia .
Mastai-Ferretti chose the name of Pius IX in honor of Pope Pius VII ( 1800-23 ) , who had encouraged his vocation to the priesthood despite his childhood epilepsy .	Cardinal Mastai-Feretti was elected Pope in 1846 ; and he took the name Pius IX .
The frontal lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals .	The frontal lobes takes action based on sensory information ( sight , sound , touch ) from the three rear areas of the cerebrum , moderated by the influence of the pre-frontal cortex .
He keeps these feelings private until Kyle , having been diagnosed with a low sperm count , physically assaults Lucy when she announces her pregnancy , wrongly assuming it to be the result of adultery with Mitch .	He keeps these feelings private .
In September 2013 it was revealed that he was diagnosed with Alzheimers disease in 2008 and was currently living in a nursing home near the south coast .	In September 2013 it was revealed that he was diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease in 2008 .
In the central nervous system , the analogous structures are known as tracts .	The special neurons grouped together in nerves take information ( messages ) to and from the body to the central nervous system .
Multiple sclerosis is a disease associated with extensive nerve damage .	There are many diseases of nerves .
A nerve is an enclosed , cable-like bundle of axons ( the long , slender projections of neurons ) in the peripheral nervous system .	All the nerves in the body make the peripheral nervous system ( acronym PNS ) .
The term population biology is often used interchangeably with population ecology , although population biology is more frequently used when studying diseases , viruses , and microbes , while population ecology is more commonly used when studying plants and animals .	( comparative anatomy ) ; `` How do the parts work ? ''
Paresthesia can also be caused simply by putting pressure on a nerve by applying weight ( or pressure ) to the limb for extended periods of time .	Paresthesia has many known causes , including the following :
The most familiar kind of paresthesia is the sensation known as `` pins and needles '' or of a limb `` falling asleep '' .	An example of this can be felt when sitting cross-legged for a long time and your foot `` falls asleep '' .
A less well-known but still fairly common paresthesia is formication .	The tingling feeling you get when you move is paresthesia .
It was at this time Cayce directed his activities to provide readings centred around health .	In addition , although Cayce 's secretary Miss Davis allegedly took down what Cayce said , the records of the readings are jumbled and chaotic .
In 1900 , Cayce formed a business partnership with his father to sell Woodmen of the World Insurance ; however , in March he was struck by severe laryngitis that resulted in a complete loss of speech .	Cayce became very sick with laryngitis in March .
γ-Hydroxybutyric acid ( GHB ) , also known as 4-hydroxybutanoic acid , is a naturally occurring substance found in the human central nervous system , as well as in wine , beef , small citrus fruits , and in small amounts in almost all animals .	It can also be discovered in wine , beef and small citrus fruits .
GHB as the sodium salt , known as sodium oxybate ( INN ) or by the trade name Xyrem , is used to treat cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy .	In patients with narcolepsy it has been used to treat sleepiness during the day .
GHB can also be produced as different salts , some of which may not have a taste as distinctive as the sodium salt ( e.g. , magnesium oxybate ) , or much less commonly in the unstable free-acid form .	Gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid ( γ-Hydroxybutyric acid , commonly shortened to GHB ; other names include 4-hydroxybutanoic acid and sodium oxybate ) is a chemical substance .
Other salt forms such as calcium GHB and magnesium GHB have also been reported , but the sodium salt is by far the most common .	In the central nervous system , GHB is involved in the exchange of information .
In immunology , the Arthus reaction ( \/ ˌɑrˈtuːs \/ , \/ ˌɑrˈtjuːs \/ ) is a type of local type III hypersensitivity reaction .	In immunology , the Arthus reaction is a kind of local allergic reaction , when antibodies react to a chemical or protein in a person 's blood , and have the antibodies get stuck in the walls of blood vessels in organs such as the heart , in joints , and kidneys .
A subdiscipline of anatomy , anthropology , and archaeology , osteology is a detailed study of the structure of bones , skeletal elements , teeth , microbone morphology , function , disease , pathology , the process of ossification ( from cartilaginous molds ) , the resistance and hardness of bones ( biophysics ) , etc. often used by scientists with identification of vertebrate remains with regard to age , death , sex , growth , and development and can be used in a biocultural context .	It is often used by scientists for the identification of vertebrate remains , including the age , death , sex , and development .
γ-Aminobutyric acid ( \/ ˈɡæmə əˈmiːnoʊbjuːˈtɪrɨk ˈæsɨd \/ ; or GABA \/ ˈɡæbə \/ ) is the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system .	gamma-Aminobutyric acid ( γ-Aminobutyric acid , GABA ) ( IPA : ( ˈgæmə əˈmiːnoʊbjuːˈtɪrɨk ˈæsɨd ) ) is a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system of mammals .
Mark , who had appeared intermittently for 18 years , was eventually killed off-screen in 2004 , dying of an AIDS-related illness .	Mark died in 2004 of AIDS .
Alexandra died in 1869 from meningitis .	In the summer of 1869 , Grieg 's daughter Alexandra became ill and died , at the age of 13 months .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world , vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .	Vitamin D is a fat-soluble nutrient .
Sunscreen absorbs ultraviolet light and prevents it from reaching the skin .	Clothing , glass , sunscreens and sunblocks also shield the skin from getting enough ultraviolet light to make D3 .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for enhancing intestinal absorption of calcium , iron , magnesium , phosphate and zinc .	It controls the levels of calcium ions and phosphates in the blood , as well as calcium and magnesium absorption in the intestines .
In general , there is no evidence to support the commonly-held belief that vitamin D can help prevent osteoporosis .	It is hard to know how much supplemental Vitamin D , if any , is needed .
Ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) is converted in the liver to 25-hydroxyergocalciferol , also known as 25-hydroxyvitamin D2 - abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D2 .	D2 ( also called ergocalciferol ) is produced by fungi .
Mimì hides and overhears Rodolfo first telling Marcello that he left Mimì because of her coquettishness , but finally confessing that his jealousy is a sham : he fears she is slowly being consumed by a deadly illness ( most likely tuberculosis , known by the catchall name `` consumption '' in the nineteenth century ) .	At first he says Mimì does not love him , but then he says he left her because she is dying of an illness .
Homan has not played since her Australian Open win as in September 2009 she suffered a nasty fall , which resulted in her tearing the ligaments in her wrist .	In July 2011 Homan said that she had retired because of a wrist injury .
Acute kidney injury ( previously known as acute renal failure ) - or AKI - usually occurs when the blood supply to the kidneys is suddenly interrupted or when the kidneys become overloaded with toxins .	Renal failure can be divided into two categories : chronic renal failure , and acute renal failure .
It excludes other identifiable manifestations of CSEC , such as commercial sexual exploitation through child marriage , domestic child labor , and the trafficking of children for sexual purposes .	Child prostitution and the trafficking of children for sexual exploitation is also increasing in Europe , North America , Japan and Australia .
In certain cases , bone may be cut to further access the interior of the body ; for example , cutting the skull for brain surgery or cutting the sternum for thoracic ( chest ) surgery to open up the rib cage .	In recent years , many patients that can not get the required surgery in their own country , or find the costs too high , travel to another country for medical care .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband , Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .	In 1999 , President Gerald Ford and Betty Ford jointly got the Congressional Gold Medal , `` in recognition of their dedicated public service and outstanding humanitarian contributions to the people of the United States of America . ''
He died on February 1 , 2013 , of congestive heart failure .	The next day on the morning of February 1 , 2013 , Koch died in Manhattan , New York from heart failure , aged 88 .
There is controversy as to whether avoidant personality disorder is a distinct disorder from generalized social phobia and it is contended by some that they are merely different conceptualisations of the same disorder , where avoidant personality disorder may represent the more severe form .	People diagnosed with avoidant personality disorder are socially inhibited , meaning that they are shy and afraid of social situations .
Avoidant personality disorder ( AvPD ) , also known as anxious personality disorder , is a Cluster C personality disorder recognized in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders handbook as afflicting persons when they display a pervasive pattern of social inhibition , feelings of inadequacy , extreme sensitivity to negative evaluation , and avoidance of social interaction .	Psychiatrists and other mental health professionals diagnose people with AvPD using a book called the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM-IV-TR ) .
Childhood emotional neglect-in particular , the rejection of a child by one or both parents-has been associated with an increased risk for the development of AvPD , as well as rejection by peers .	If the person has four or more of the following signs , the DSM-IV-TR says that they have AvPD .
Dietitians are health professionals who specialize in human nutrition , meal planning , economics , and preparation .	A nutrition expert is called a dietician .
His alcoholism worsened , and resulted in three separate arrests for drunk driving .	He had problems with alcohol and was arrested three times for driving drunk .
In 2000 , with the creation of golden rice , scientists genetically modified food to increase its nutrient value for the first time .	Researchers have made genetically modified potatoes which are resistant to potato blight .
Rabies ( \/ ˈreɪbiːz \/ ; from Latin : rabies , `` madness '' ) is a viral disease that causes acute inflammation of the brain in humans and other warm-blooded animals .	Rabies is a neurotropic virus , viral zoonotic disease that causes acute encephalitis .
In those who have been exposed to rabies , rabies vaccine and sometimes rabies immunoglobulin are effective in preventing disease if given before the start of symptoms .	Often patients are given one dose of immunoglobulin and a certain number of vaccines , over a determined period of time , usually a month .
An autopsy confirmed Gandolfini had died of a heart attack .	The accident happened when Gandolfini was filming of the final Sopranos episodes .
It has also been demonstrated that cognitive dissonance can be used to promote behaviors such as increased condom use .	Cognitive dissonance is a concept in social psychology .
Quinine was the first effective treatment for malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum , appearing in therapeutics in the 17th century .	In that way , quinine is currently one of the best treatments for malaria tropica , which is caused by plasmodium falciparum .
Quinine is also used to treat lupus and arthritis .	Even today , quinine is used to treat certain forms of malaria , when other drugs fail or are unavailable .
Quinine is a flavor component of tonic water and bitter lemon .	It was first added to drinks like Bitter Lemon and Tonic Water Quinine was added to have some protection against Malaria .
Since then , many effective antimalarials have been introduced , although quinine is still used to treat the disease in certain critical circumstances , such as severe malaria , and in impoverished regions due to its low cost .	For the other forms of malaria , quinine is no longer used , as other drugs have replaced it .
Quinine can also cause drug-induced immune thrombocytopenic purpura .	Quinine has a bitter taste .
Quinine had been said to be the prime reason Africa ceased to be known as the `` white man 's grave '' .	Quinine is also often used to add a bitter taste to food .
The American Psychological Association stated in 2004 : The American Sociological Association stated in 2004 : The Canadian Psychological Association stated in 2006 : The American Anthropological Association stated in 2005 : The American Academy of Pediatrics concluded in 2006 , in an analysis published in the journal Pediatrics : The United Kingdom 's Royal College of Psychiatrists has stated : In 2010 , a Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health study examining the effects of institutional discrimination on the psychiatric health of lesbian , gay and bisexual ( LGB ) individuals found an increase in psychiatric disorders , including a more than doubling of anxiety disorders , among the LGB population living in states that instituted bans on same-sex marriage .	The Dutch law says the following : - Dutch civil law , book 1 , article 30 That is consistent with the first article of the Dutch civil law , and with the Dutch constitution : Dutch civil law , book 1 , article 1 Dutch constitution , article 1 The first same-sex union in modern history was recognized by the government in Denmark in 1989 .
Allergic reactions are commonly treated with epinephrine ( adrenaline ) injection using a device such as an epinephrine autoinjector , with prompt follow-up treatment in a hospital .	With every sting , there is the danger of an allergic reaction and of a shock after this reaction .
Non-queens being 1.4-1 .5 inches in length , the Asian giant hornet 's venom can cause allergic reactions and multiple organ failure leading to death , though dialysis can be used to remove the toxins from the bloodstream .	If it is not possible to put out the light , a glass jar can be used to catch the hornet .
Vespasian died in 79 and was succeeded by Titus , whose own reign came to an unexpected end when he was struck by a fatal illness in 81 .	When Titus died ( he was struck down by a fatal illness in 81 ) the next day Domitian was declared emperor by the Praetorian Guard .
On 4 July , it was reported that David Smith , a lawyer acting on behalf of Mandela family members , claimed in court on 26 June that Mandela was in a permanent vegetative state and life support should be withdrawn .	On 28 June Mandela 's family were arguing where to bury Mandela .
After a successful medical procedure in early March 2013 , his lung infection recurred , and he was briefly hospitalised in Pretoria .	He was hospitalized in late summer of 2013 from a continuous lung infection .
The South African Presidency stated that the doctors treating Mandela denied that he was in a vegetative state .	The South African government said that Mandela is still alive despite the rumor that he died .
The EP 's lead single titled `` Nelson Mandela '' was released at a time when Mandela was critically ill but stable at the Medi-Clinic Heart Hospital in Pretoria .	Mandela was ill for several years during his retirement .
In mid-2013 , as Mandela was hospitalised for a lung infection in Pretoria , his descendants were involved in intra-family legal dispute relating to the burial place of Mandela 's children , and ultimately Mandela himself .	Mandela died on 5 December 2013 in Houghton Estate , Johannesburg from the lung infection .
A relative of Mandela told The Daily Telegraph newspaper he was on life support .	After receiving the prize he said : Mandela has been married three times and has six children .
He died of heart failure a month later at age 34 .	She died of congestive heart failure on April 8 , 1993 in Portland , Oregon at her nephew 's home .
Pillman signed a contract with the World Wrestling Federation on June 10 , 1996 , with the signing announced in a press conference .	Pillman was found dead by police in his Bloomington , Minnesota hotel room on October 5 , 1997 from a previously undetected heart condition called arteriosclerotic heart disease .
In the Ponzo illusion the converging parallel lines tell the brain that the image higher in the visual field is farther away therefore the brain perceives the image to be larger , although the two images hitting the retina are the same size .	There are three main types of visual illusion : The general explanation for most illusions is the way the brain works on sense data to produce a meaningful perception .
Generalised anxiety disorder , separation anxiety disorder and social phobia are also more common .	Most people who have ADHD also have other mental disorders , most often oppositional defiant disorder , conduct disorder , dyslexia , Tourette syndrome , anxiety disorders ( especially obsessive-compulsive disorder ) , mood disorders , substance use disorders , eating disorders and personality disorders ( especially antisocial , borderline , histrionic , passive-aggressive and avoidant ) .
Most healthcare providers accept ADHD as a genuine disorder , at least in the small number of people with severe symptoms .	This is similar to why people with ADHD have trouble focusing .
Primary sleep disorders may affect attention and behavior and the symptoms of ADHD may affect sleep .	Because ADHD affects how people 's nerves develop , it is called a neurological developmental disorder .
About 30-50 % of people diagnosed in childhood continue to have symptoms into adulthood and between 2-5 % of adults have the condition .	In the United States , about one in every fourteen children has ADHD ( 7 % ) , including one in every ten boys ( 10 % ) and one in every twenty-five girls ( 4 % ) .
While the core symptoms of ADHD are similar in children and adults they often present differently in adults than in children , for example excessive physical activity seen in children may present as feelings of restlessness and constant mental activity in adults .	An easy ( though not completely correct ) way to imagine what ADHD is like is to think of a shiny light or a constant noise in a room .
She nearly dies giving birth to her and Edward 's half-vampire-half-human daughter , Renesmee .	Edward successfully delivers the baby girl , Renesmee ( who is half vampire , half human ) , but Bella is in critical condition with a broken spine and the bleeding wounds from Edward 's surgery .
Accompanied by two female attendants , Anne made her final walk from the Queen 's House to the scaffold and she showed a `` devilish spirit '' and looked `` as gay as if she was not going to die '' .	He said she had `` passing excellent '' skill as a dancer .
Joshua Lederberg and Norton Zinder showed in 1951 that genetic material could be transferred from one strain of the bacterium Salmonella typhimurium to another using viral material as an intermediary step .	Lederberg and his graduate student Norton Zinder went on to show in 1952 that bacteriophages could transfer genetic information between bacteria in Salmonella .
About 15-30 % of people with migraines experience migraines with an aura and those who have migraines with aura also frequently have migraines without aura .	Episodic migraine ( EM ) is when a person has migraine symptoms for 14 days or less in one month , while chronic migraine ( CM ) is when a person has migraine symptoms for 15 or more days in one month .
Changing hormone levels may also play a role , as migraines affect slightly more boys than girls before puberty , but about two to three times more women than men .	Abdominal migraine usually affects children starting at about age 7 , but it may affect younger children and older children , and it may also sometimes affect adults .
Migraines typically do not occur during the second and third trimesters or following menopause .	Migraines can last a long time .
Bilateral pain is particularly common in those who have migraines without an aura .	Being a female is a risk factor , and so is having family members who had migraines .
Four genes have been shown to be involved in familial hemiplegic migraine .	For a person who has migraines , there are different trigger factors which may set off a migraine attack .
Migraines typically present with self-limited , recurrent severe headache associated with autonomic symptoms .	A migraine is a medical condition which usually causes a pounding , throbbing headache on one side of the head .
Motor symptoms indicate that this is a hemiplegic migraine , and weakness often lasts longer than one hour unlike other auras .	If it happens more than fifteen days , it is called chronic migraine ( CM ) .
Associated symptoms may include nausea , vomiting , and sensitivity to light , sound , or smell .	Cyclic vomiting syndrome or cyclical vomiting syndrome ( CVS ) , is a medical condition whose main symptoms are nausea and repeated vomiting .
Many report a sore feeling in the area where the migraine was , and some report impaired thinking for a few days after the headache has passed .	Migraines have been classified , based on how often they happen in a month : If a person has a headache for less than fifteen days , the migraine is called episodic migraine ( EM ) .
There are four possible phases to a migraine , although not all the phases are necessarily experienced : Prodromal or premonitory symptoms occur in about 60 % of those with migraines , with an onset of two hours to two days before the start of pain or the aura .	Most migraines only last about 4 hours .
The effects of migraine may persist for some days after the main headache has ended ; this is called the migraine postdrome .	There are different kinds of migraines and some do not cause a headache but do have other symptoms .
Lactose is a water-soluble substance .	Lactose is a disaccharide sugar ( double sugar molecule ) , which must be split ( digested ) into two simple sugars ( monosaccharides ) , glucose and galactose .
Lactase deficiency has a number of causes and is classified as one of three types : Lactose intolerance is not an allergy , because it is not an immune response , but rather a problem with digestion caused by lactase deficiency .	Lactose intolerance is not the same as milk allergy , which is an immune reaction to some of the proteins in milk .
Most mammals normally cease to produce lactase , becoming lactose intolerant , after weaning , but some human populations have developed lactase persistence , in which lactase production continues into adulthood .	Some humans continue to produce lactase , and some do not .
Low-lactose and lactose-free versions of foods are often available to replace dairy-based foods for those with lactose intolerance .	Lactose intolerance is when a person can not digest milk or milk products ( such as cheese or yoghurt ) .
If the hydrogen levels in your breath are high , you may have lactose intolerance .	People with lactose intolerance do not have this enzyme or make only small quantities .
Individuals may be lactose intolerant to varying degrees , depending on the severity of these symptoms .	Hunter-gatherer people before the Neolithic revolution were mostly lactose intolerant .
\ Davies is openly gay .	Davies , who is openly gay , still lives there on the island of Sanday with his partner Colin Parkinson .
Claudio Arrau died in 1991 , at the age of 88 , in Mürzzuschlag , Austria , from complications of emergency surgery to correct an intestinal blockage .	He died in Austria in 1991 .
Major primary pollutants produced by human activity include : These are gases which are released from air conditioners , refrigerators , aerosol sprays , etc. .	Air pollutions are usually described as either primary pollutants or secondary pollutants .
Air pollution is also emerging as a risk factor for stroke , particularly in developing countries where pollutant levels are highest .	Air pollution is not only on the outside .
Air pollution is the introduction of chemicals , particulates , biological materials , or other harmful materials into the Earth 's atmosphere , possibly causing disease , death to humans , damage to other living organisms such as food crops , or the natural or built environment .	Human-made air pollution comes from many things .
It is a health protection tool used to make decisions to reduce short-term exposure to air pollution by adjusting activity levels during increased levels of air pollution .	Air pollution is pollution of the air which can affect the health , survival , or activities of many organisms , including humans .
A 2007 review of evidence found ambient air pollution exposure is a risk factor correlating with increased total mortality from cardiovascular events ( range : 12 % to 14 % per a 10 microg\/m ^ 3 increase ) .	Cars , for instance , make about 60 % of the human-made air pollution in the United States .
It occurs when tissue fluid within the peritoneal and retroperitoneal space ( either edema , retroperitoneal blood or free fluid in the abdomen ) accumulates in such large volumes that the abdominal wall compliance threshold is crossed and the abdomen can no longer stretch .	This may be caused by internal bleeding , a blockage or fluid build-up in the intestines , or ` ascites ' which is when fluid accumulates in the the peritoneal cavity - the space between the lining of the abdomen ( peritoneum ) and the abdominal organs ( the stomach , small and large intestines , pancreas , liver , and gallbladder ) .
In October 1971 , Livingstone 's father died of a heart attack ; his mother soon moved to Lincoln .	The PPP deal went ahead in July 2002 , but it did not diminish Livingstone 's desire to re-join Labor .
In Australia , codeine preparations must be sold only at a pharmacy .	Codeine hydrochloride is more commonly marketed in continental Europe and other regions .
Tablets of codeine in combination with aspirin or acetaminophen ( paracetamol\/Tylenol ) made for pain relief are listed as Schedule III ; and cough syrups are Schedule III or V , depending on formula .	There are similar combinations with aspirin as co-codaprin or with ibuprofen .
Fisher is known as one of the chief architects of the neo-Darwinian synthesis , for his important contributions to statistics , including the analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) , method of maximum likelihood , fiducial inference , and the derivation of various sampling distributions , and for being one of the three principal founders of population genetics .	He was one of the founders of the neo-Darwinian modern evolutionary synthesis .
Methamphetamine ( pronunciation : \/ ˌmɛθæmˈfɛtəmiːn \/ ; contracted from N-methyl-alpha-methylphenethylamine ) is a neurotoxin and potent psychostimulant of the phenethylamine and amphetamine classes that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obesity .	Many people use it illegally , but it can be used legally to treat narcolepsy , Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , or obesity .
Methamphetamine users and addicts may lose their teeth abnormally quickly , regardless of the route of administration , from a condition informally known as meth mouth .	Meth mouth destruction can be quick - a new addict can go from having healthy teeth to total tooth loss in as little as one year .
Methamphetamine is known to have a high potential for abuse and addiction .	In its smokeable form , methamphetamine is known as `` ice , '' `` crystal , '' `` crank , '' or `` glass '' .
Urine flows from the kidney through the ureter , bladder , and finally the urethra before passing from the body .	Urine leaves the body through the urethra .
Particularly spicy foods can have a similar effect , as their compounds pass through the kidneys without being fully broken down before exiting the body .	After the blood has passed through the liver and the kidneys , it has the correct composition that the body needs .
Urobilin in turn is a final waste product resulting from the breakdown of heme from hemoglobin during the destruction of aging blood cells .	The yellow color is caused by urobilins , which are produced by the breakdown of hemoglobin , the substance that gives blood its red color .
Cancers of the oral cavity are strongly associated with tobacco use , especially use of chewing tobacco or `` dip '' , as well as heavy alcohol use .	This cancer can be caused by drinking too much alcohol or chewing tobacco .
Birth control , also known as contraception and fertility control , are methods or devices used to prevent pregnancy .	Birth control , also known as contraception or family planning , is a way for a man and woman to have sexual intercourse and avoid pregnancy .
Barrier contraceptives are devices that attempt to prevent pregnancy by physically preventing sperm from entering the uterus .	Copper IUDs can also be used as a day-after method to prevent pregnancy after the woman and man already had sex .
Progestin-only pills , injections and intrauterine devices are not associated with an increased risk of blood clots and may be used by women with previous blood clots in their veins .	They can make a very small increase in the risk of blood clots in the lungs , strokes , heart attacks , and breast cancer .
The current intrauterine devices ( IUD ) are small devices , often ` T ' - shaped , often containing either copper or levonorgestrel , which are inserted into the uterus .	This object is called an intrauterine device or IUD ( acronym ) .
Neither method offers protection from sexually transmitted infections .	Some contraceptives , such as condoms , will also protect a person from sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
Combined hormonal contraceptives are associated with a slightly increased risk of venous and arterial blood clots .	The hormonal IUD has better protection against pregnancy but costs more .
Though some groups advocate total sexual abstinence , by which they mean the avoidance of all sexual activity , in the context of birth control the term usually means abstinence from vaginal intercourse .	This means a man and a woman practice abstinence ( not having sex ) when the woman is fertile .
Safe sex , such as the use of male or female condoms , can also help prevent sexually transmitted infections .	When people use contraception to prevent STDs and pregnancy , it may be called safe sex .
They are available in a number of different forms including oral pills , implants under the skin , injections , patches , IUDs and a vaginal ring .	Implants and injections are very good for younger women or women who can not take a pill every day .
The hair fiber is composed of keratin and other substances .	The hair fiber is composed of a cuticle that is continuous with the root sheath , an intermediate cortex , and an inner medulla .
High doses may lead to convulsions .	High doses can cause seizures , respiratory failure ( where the breathing systems in the body stop working ) , coma , fever , stroke , or death .
While the presence of sperm in pre-ejaculatory fluid is thought to be rare , sperm from an earlier ejaculation , still present in the urethra , may be picked up by pre-ejaculatory fluid .	However , some sperm may have been left behind in the urethra from an earlier ejaculation and the pre-ejaculate may carry this sperm out of the penis .
An unusually low sperm count , not the same as low semen volume , is known as oligospermia , and the absence of any sperm from the semen is termed azoospermia .	If there are no sperm at all , this is called azoospermia .
Expression of c-fos in the following areas has been observed : Although uncommon , some men can achieve hands-free ejaculations , which is an ejaculation without any manual stimulation .	Most young and middle-aged men can probably have about two to three ejaculations in a few hours , but it has been said that some men are able to have up to nine ejaculations a day .
Of the few early ejaculations that do contain sperm , the majority of sperm ( 97 % ) lack motion .	There may be more sperm if : If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation , this is called oligospermia .
The first ejaculation in males often occurs about 12 months after the onset of puberty , generally through masturbation or nocturnal emission ( wet dreams ) .	A boy 's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty , which is when his body starts changing into a man 's body .
When the flow ends , the muscle contractions of the orgasm continue with no additional semen discharge .	When he has an orgasm , semen comes out from the end of his penis .
In addition , infectious agents ( including HIV ) often can be present in pre-ejaculate .	Young boys can not ejaculate .
In rare cases , ejaculation occurs because of prostatic disease .	A study carried out in Australia seemed to show that men who ejaculate often have less chance of getting prostate cancer .
Dribbling of semen from the penis is usually sufficient for impregnation .	When a boy starts to ejaculate , he usually produces only a small amount of semen .
The semen produced during early puberty is also typically clear .	Boys do not ejaculate until they reach puberty .
As a medical condition it is called retrograde ejaculation .	are ejaculations .
It thus seems highly likely that Lincoln was in the prodromal period of smallpox when he delivered the Gettysburg address .	Partly because of this , it has become the most well-known version of the Gettysburg Address .
Rand died of heart failure on March 6 , 1982 , at her home in New York City , and was interred in the Kensico Cemetery , Valhalla , New York .	She died of cardiovascular disease in New York City on March 6 , 1982 .
This can make endosperm a source of nutrition in human diet .	The endosperm of cereal plants is an important source of nutrition for humans .
Fauset died on April 30 , 1961 from heart disease .	She died in 1961 from heart failure .
Spurgeon also suffered ill health toward the end of his life , afflicted by a combination of rheumatism , gout and Bright 's disease .	Throughout his life , Spurgeon suffered from depression and other mental illnesses .
The Miller-Urey experiment ( or Urey-Miller experiment ) was an experiment that simulated the conditions thought at the time to be present on the early Earth , and tested for the occurrence of chemical origins of life .	The Miller and Urey experiment ( or Urey-Miller experiment ) was an experiment that made organic compounds out of inorganic ones by applying a form of energy .
The dogma was championed by the Nobel Prize Laureate ( see ) Christian B. Anfinsen from his research on the folding of ribonuclease A. The postulate amounts to saying that , at the environmental conditions ( temperature , solvent concentration and composition , etc. ) at which folding occurs , the native structure is a unique , stable and kinetically accessible minimum of the free energy .	Anfinsen shared the 1972 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for his work on the structure of the enzyme ribonuclease A. The dogma suggests that , in the conditions at which folding occurs , the native structure is a unique and stable state .
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) is an emergency procedure for manually preserving brain function until further measures to restore spontaneous blood circulation and breathing in a person who is in cardiac arrest .	Cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) is the name for a number of procedures that should be applied if a person stop breathing , or if they suffered from cardiac arrest .
This indicates that around a third of out-of-home arrests have a CPR attempt made on them .	Each minute that passes before the onset of the CPR measures lowers the chance of survival by about ten percent .
For those with non cardiac arrest and people less than 20 years of age , standard CPR is superior to compression-only CPR .	CPR can be done at different levels .
Age correlates to the chance of CPR being commenced : Younger people are far more likely to have CPR attempted on them before the arrival of emergency medical services .	A quick call to emergency services , and a quick start of basic CPR , especially fibrillation can double to triple the chance of survival with adults , and children .
Denkova \/ Staviski withdrew from the 2000 European Championships after Staviski fell ill with pneumonia .	Denkova has not made an official announcement as to their retirement , but if Staviski goes to jail , they will be unable to compete .
Both Denkova and Staviski fell ill with the flu before the 2001 European Championships and she suffered more swelling but they competed at the event and finished 8th , their best result to that date .	After 2007 Worlds , Denkova and Staviski did not announce if they would retire , leaving it open .
Pollutants enter rivers and the sea directly from urban sewerage and industrial waste discharges , sometimes in the form of hazardous and toxic wastes .	All waste water , in time , enters a body of water ( usually a stream ) .
For example , according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency , mining has contaminated portions of the headwaters of over 40 % of watersheds in the western continental US .	The Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) began to investigate , and found that hospitals in the United States make about 3 million tons of medical waste every year .
Waterborne hydrophobic pollutants collect and magnify on the surface of plastic debris , thus making plastic far more deadly in the ocean than it would be on land .	Raw sewage is all the liquid and solid wastes that go down toilets and drains .
Some descriptions of carbon monoxide poisoning include retinal hemorrhages , and an abnormal cherry-red blood hue .	Carbon monoxide poisoning can cause feelings of paranoia and hallucinations , and has been determined to be a major cause of `` haunted '' houses .
Abdominal migraine is a disorder primarily of children which presents with episodes of abdominal pain without an accompanying headache .	Abdominal migraines can cause many different symptoms .
It is difficult to confirm the diagnosis as there are not a set of features that is specific and thus it can take time before the diagnosis is made .	Before making a final diagnosis of abdominal migraine , a doctor must rule out differential diagnoses .
Transgender people may be eligible for diagnosis of gender identity disorder ( GID ) `` only if ( being transgender ) causes distress or disability . ''	Many transgender people do not like being labeled as having a disease , gender identity disorder , even though it is an accepted diagnosis and a medical condition that can only be treated with medicine , surgery , or therapy .
Transgender is the state of one 's gender identity ( self-identification as woman , man , neither or both ) or gender expression not matching one 's assigned sex ( identification by others as male , female or intersex based on physical\/genetic sex ) .	Transgender is a term used to describe people who may act , feel , think , or look different from the gender that they were assigned by society based on their sex .
There is some controversy over the role of low body temperature as a risk factor for the common cold ; the majority of the evidence suggests that it may result in greater susceptibility to infection .	The role of body cooling as a risk factor for the common cold is controversial .
Upper respiratory tract infections are loosely divided by the areas they affect , with the common cold primarily affecting the nose , the throat ( pharyngitis ) , and the sinuses ( sinusitis ) , occasionally involving either or both eyes via conjunctivitis .	The common cold mostly hurts the nose , pharyngitis the throat , and sinusitis the sinuses .
The primary method of prevention is by hand washing with some evidence to support the effectiveness of wearing face masks .	Hand washing is the main way to keep the common cold from happening .
Symptoms may begin within 16 hours of exposure and typically peak two to four days after onset .	Symptoms typically reach their worst two to three days after the infection begins .
The color of the sputum or nasal secretion may vary from clear to yellow to green and does not indicate the class of agent causing the infection .	The color of the mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways ( sputum ) may vary in color from clear to yellow to green .
The common cold virus is typically transmitted via airborne droplets ( aerosols ) , direct contact with infected nasal secretions , or fomites ( contaminated objects ) .	By breathing or swallowing droplets in the air containing the virus ; or by contacting infected nasal mucus or contaminated objects .
The common cold may occasionally lead to pneumonia , either viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia .	The flu ( influenza ) causes 5 % to 15 % of cases .
In total over 200 different viral types are associated with colds .	In total , over two hundred different viruses ( k2 ) are associated with colds .
There is no evidence that recirculated air during commercial flight is a method of transmission .	There is no evidence that the air on commercial flights transmits cold viruses .
These infections have been with humanity since antiquity .	These colds have been with humans for thousands of years .
The average duration of cough is 18 days and in some cases people develop a post-viral cough which can linger after the infection is gone .	These symptoms usually last seven to ten days , but sometimes up to three weeks .
The CDC also combats non-infectious diseases , including obesity .	When an infectious disease or bad food can cause health problems , the CDC will tell the nation how to fight it .
Murray 's attorney told the court that Murray is not to blame for Jackson 's death , that Jackson gave himself a dose of drugs that killed him so quickly Jackson `` did n't even have time to close his eyes '' .	He said that Jackson killed himself .
White said that `` the dose of propofol we are talking here is 25 mg .	Murray was charged with the involuntary manslaughter of the pop star for giving him an overdose of propofol .
Anding , who is thought to be the person Murray was speaking to when he noticed Jackson was not breathing , said she heard coughing and mumbling after Murray stopped speaking on the call , which lasted `` three or four minutes '' .	After Murray was released from jail he was on 60 Minutes .
In 1942 his sentence was commuted to twenty years ' imprisonment ; he died in prison in 1943 , of starvation .	As a result , Vavilov was arrested , and died of starvation in a prison in 1943 .
Her influence on her husband became particularly notable ; her presence at rallies , luncheons , and receptions increased his confidence .	She had a strong influence on her husband .
In 1998 , while her husband was afflicted with Alzheimer 's disease , Nancy told Vanity Fair , `` Our relationship is very special .	She spent much of her time caring for her husband who was suffering from Alzheimer 's disease .
With three alleles : and In the case of multiple alleles at a diploid locus , the number of possible genotypes ( G ) with a number of alleles ( a ) is given by the expression : A number of genetic disorders are caused when an individual inherits two recessive alleles for a single-gene trait .	In this example , parents have the genotype Bb ( capital letters show dominant alleles and lower-case letters to show recessive alleles ) .
This type of interaction was first formally described by Gregor Mendel .	This idea originates in the work of Gregor Mendel , the founder of genetics .
If both alleles are the same , they and the organism are homozygous and the organisms are homozygotes .	p6 If the two alleles are identical , the individual is called a homozygote and is said to be homozygous .
In many cases , genotypic interactions between the two alleles at a locus can be described as dominant or recessive , according to which of the two homozygous genotypes the phenotype of the heterozygote most resembles .	The phenotype of the flower will always be red if a dominant B is in the genotype .
If the first allele is dominant to the second then the fraction of the population that will show the dominant phenotype is p2 + 2pq , and the fraction with the recessive phenotype is q2 .	Only if both alleles are recessive does the receassive allele show in the phenotype This is when the dominant allele is not completely dominant over the recessive allele .
People with severe astigmatism , however , may still need to use their glasses while using binoculars .	The Royal Navy used telescopes , but now all ships have heavy binoculars .
Non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder , also referred to as free-running disorder ( FRD ) or Non-24 , is one of the circadian rhythm sleep disorders in humans .	Some people have a condition , a circadian rhythm sleep disorder , which makes them freerun all the time , even if they get out into daylight and eat regular meals .
The use of some neuroleptics or hypnotics can also cause sleepwalking to occur .	There are certain drugs that can treat sleepwalking .
This presence might suggest an immaturity in the central nervous system , also a possible cause of sleepwalking .	Most cases of sleepwalking are temporary , they occur once , or only a few times .
Usually , if sleepwalking occurs at all , it will only occur once in a night .	There is no data about how common sleepwalking is .
Sleepwalking events are common in childhood and decrease with age .	Sleepwalking seems to be more common in children , between ten and thirty percent of children are affected ; in most cases , they stop sleepwalking during puberty .
Sleepwalking can , however , be a symptom of people with psychological disorders .	People with this disorder leave bed , without waking up , and walk around .
Both ephedrine and pseudoephedrine increase blood pressure and act as bronchodilators , with pseudoephedrine having considerably less effect .	Ephedrine has effects on the human body .
A synonym is erythro-Ephedrine .	It has ephedrine and pseudoephedrine in it .
Ephedrine is a sympathomimetic amine .	Ephedrine ( or EPH ) is an alkaloid found in plants of the genus Ephedra .
A corpus cavernosum penis ( singular ) ( cavernous body of the penis ) is one of a pair of sponge-like regions of erectile tissue , the corpora cavernosa ( plural ) ( cavernous bodies ) , which contain most of the blood in the penis during penile erection .	The corpus cavernosum penis ( or corpus cavernosum urethrae ) is one of two sponge-like sections of tissue in the male penis .
A little blood enters the corpus spongiosum ; the remainder engorges the corpora cavernosa , which expand to hold 90 % of the blood involved in an erection , increasing both in length and in diameter .	The blood fills the corpora cavernosa .
Microtubules-in essence , miniature strings-splay out from opposite ends of the cell and shorten , pulling apart the sister chromatids of each chromosome .	The cell begins to stretch out as the opposite ends are pushed apart .
Welk completely retired from all public appearances in 1992 at the age of 89 .	Welk died from pneumonia in Santa Monica , California , in 1992 at age 89 .
Speech-language pathologists ( SLPs ) , also called speech and language therapists , or speech therapists , specialize in the evaluation and treatment of communication disorders and swallowing disorders .	A Speech and Language Therapist is a health care professional who specialises in communication and swallowing difficulties .
Anal cancer is a cancer ( malignant tumor ) which arises from the anus , the distal orifice of the gastrointestinal tract .	Anal cancer is a type of cancer in the anus .
Mary died the next year of lung cancer ( referred to publicly as `` gastric problems '' ) on 24 March 1953 at the age of 85 , only ten weeks before her granddaughter 's coronation .	After suffering with lung cancer ( described publically as `` gastric problems '' ) , Queen Mary died of the disease at Marlborough House on 24 March 1953 .
However , Albert Victor died six weeks later , in the worldwide influenza pandemic that swept through Britain in the winter of 1891-2 .	However , a few weeks before the wedding , Prince Albert Victor died of influenza .
Although there is no continuous membrane between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus , membrane-bound vesicles shuttle proteins between these two compartments .	Another type of cytoplasmic network is the plate-like Golgi apparatus .
Behaviours associated with substance abuse and eating disorders are usually not considered self-harm because the resulting tissue damage is ordinarily an unintentional side effect .	In this case , the self-harm was usually done by cutting .
However patients with other diagnoses may also self-harm , including those with depression , anxiety disorders , substance abuse , eating disorders , post-traumatic stress disorder , schizophrenia , and several personality disorders .	These problems may include physical abuse , sexual abuse , or eating disorders .
It is often seen as only a symptom of an underlying disorder , though many people who self-harm would like this to be addressed .	Self-harm is often a symptom of other problems .
Genetics may contribute to the risk of developing other psychological conditions , such as anxiety or depression , which could in turn lead to self-harming behavior .	Unstable living conditions such as unemployment or divorce may also make a person more likely to self-harm .
People who self-harm are not usually seeking to end their own life ; it has been suggested instead that they are using self-harm as a coping mechanism to relieve emotional pain or discomfort or as an attempt to communicate distress .	Some people may turn to self-harm to relieve these emotions .
The most distinctive characteristic of the rare genetic condition Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is self-harm and may include biting and head-banging .	Biting , burning , and cutting are other forms of self-injury .
The key areas of illness which exhibit an increased risk include autism spectrum disorders , borderline personality disorder , bipolar disorder , depression , phobias , and conduct disorders .	Compulsive hair-pulling ( trichotillomania ) and compulsive skin-picking ( dermotillomania ) are impulse control disorders which are also mild forms of self-harm .
The disruption of feedback loops can lead to undesirable results : in the case of blood glucose levels , if negative feedback fails , the glucose levels in the blood may begin to rise dramatically , thus resulting in diabetes .	Examples : blood pressure , glucose level , liver functions , cell division , and so on .
Frail , and suffering increasingly from senile dementia , the Duchess died 14 years later , and was buried alongside her husband as `` Wallis , Duchess of Windsor '' .	Wallis Simpson was frail , and suffering from dementia died 14 years later .
Shaw died of a heart attack on 28 August 1978 while driving from Castlebar to his home in Tourmakeady , Ireland .	Shaw died on August 9 , 1978 from a heart attack while on the set of Avalanche Express in Tourmakeady , County Mayo , Republic of Ireland .
The genital tract develops during embryogenesis , from the third week of gestation to the second trimester , and the hymen is formed following the vagina .	The hymen comes from the skin covering the vagina at that time .
In cases of suspected rape or child sexual abuse , a detailed examination of the hymen may be performed , but the condition of the hymen alone is often inconclusive .	There are several different types of hymen .
Drugs that contain nitrogen include all major classes of antibiotics and organic nitrate drugs like nitroglycerin and nitroprusside that regulate blood pressure and heart action by mimicking the action of nitric oxide .	Nitrous oxide contains nitrogen in the +1 oxidation state .
Liberace died of cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) pneumonia as a result of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) on February 4 , 1987 , at his winter home in Palm Springs , California .	He died of an AIDS-related illness on February 4 , 1987 in Palm Springs , California , aged 67 .
Endorphins are known to play a role in depersonalization disorder .	Endorphins may have a role in obesity , diabetes and psychiatric diseases too .
In another study , higher levels of endorphins were found in cerebrospinal fluid after patients underwent acupuncture .	Also , scientists think that acupuncture results in the release of more endorphins .
The studies that do involve humans often measure endorphin plasma levels , which do not necessarily correlate with levels in the central nervous system .	Exercise increases the endorphin release too .
Opioid neuropeptides were first discovered in 1974 by two independent groups of investigators : Beta-endorphin ( β-endorphin ) is released into blood from the pituitary gland and into the spinal cord and brain from hypothalamic neurons .	Endorphins were first found in 1970s .
They are produced by the pituitary gland and the hypothalamus in vertebrates during exercise , excitement , pain , spicy food consumption , love , and sexual activity , and they resemble the opiates in their abilities to produce analgesia and a feeling of well-being .	They are usually in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland .
Scientists sometimes debate whether specific activities release measurable levels of endorphins .	It is commonly said that the `` high '' is a result of the release of bigger amounts of endorphins in the body during the exercise .
In situations where the level of ACTH is increased ( e.g. , Cushing 's Syndrome ) , the level of β-endorphin also increases slightly .	Four types of endorphins are created in the human body .
The term `` acne rosacea '' is a synonym for rosacea , however , some individuals may have almost no acne comedones associated with their rosacea and therefore prefer the term rosacea .	Acne causes scarring , and acne pustules can be very painful and sensitive .
The lesions are caused by changes in pilosebaceous units , skin structures consisting of a hair follicle and its associated sebaceous gland , changes that require androgen stimulation .	Acne is an infection of the skin , caused by changes in the sebaceous glands .
Cystic acne affects deeper skin tissue than does common acne .	The face , chest , back , and upper arms are most common places for acne to happen .
Acne occurs most commonly during adolescence , affecting an estimated 80-90 % of teenagers in the Western world .	People of all ages can get acne , although it occurs more commonly in adolescents .
In adolescence , acne is usually caused by an increase in androgens such as testosterone , which occurs during puberty , regardless of sex .	Acne is common during puberty , when a person is turning from a child into an adult , because of high levels of hormones .
For example , in humans , different species of louse inhabit the scalp and pubic hair .	Humans are unique in that they host three different species of lice : head lice , body lice ( which live mainly in clothing ) , and pubic lice .
Louse ( plural : lice ) is the common name for members of over 3,000 species of wingless insects of the order Phthiraptera ; three of which are classified as human disease agents .	Lice ( singular : louse ) , are wingless insects that live in hair .
For example , genetic evidence suggests that our human ancestors acquired pubic lice from gorillas approximately 3-4 million years ago .	Recent DNA evidence suggests that pubic lice spread to the ancestors of humans approximately 3.3 million years ago from the ancestors of gorillas by sharing the same bed or other communal areas with them , and are more closely related to lice endemic to gorillas than to other lice species infesting humans .
The body louse evolved from the head louse ~ 107,000 years ago .	What this means is that lice may have evolved from free-living species of that group .
In the anatomy of humans and of many other vertebrates , the brainstem ( or brain stem ) is the posterior part of the brain , adjoining and structurally continuous with the spinal cord .	The brain stem is the rear part of the brain .
The third primary vesicle , the rhombencephalon , will further differentiate into two secondary vesicles , the metencephalon and the myelencephalon .	Conduction All information going between the body and the cerebellum and the cerebrum must go through the brainstem .
Visible light ( commonly referred to simply as light ) is electromagnetic radiation that is visible to the human eye , and is responsible for the sense of sight .	Light is electromagnetic radiation that is in the form of a wave .
Other conditions that affect the sebaceous glands include :	In the glands , sebum is produced within specialized cells and is released as these cells burst ; sebaceous glands are thus classified as holocrine glands .
The hydrogenosomes of trichomonads ( the most studied of the hydrogenosome-containing microorganisms ) produce molecular hydrogen , acetate , carbon dioxide and ATP by the combined actions of pyruvate : ferredoxin oxido-reductase , hydrogenase , acetate : succinate CoA transferase and succinate thiokinase .	The hydrogenosomes of trichomonads ( the best studied ) produce ATP by a complex metabolic cycle .
According to a 1998 report in The New York Times , Fountain of Hope , a non-profit organization , said that jenkem was used by street children in Lusaka , Zambia to obtain a `` powerful high . ''	Jenkem is also used to make a person happy .
This usage commonly causes contact dermatitis in construction workers .	It can cause cancer when the dust is inhaled .
The most well-known disease that affects the immune system itself is AIDS , caused by HIV .	Infections like HIV get in this way , and then attack cells which are the basis of the immune system .
The study of the interaction of the immune system with cancer cells can lead to diagnostic tests and therapies with which to find and fight cancer .	Immunology deals with the working of the immune system in health and diseases , and with malfunctions of the immune system .
It also involves diseases of other systems , where immune reactions play a part in the pathology and clinical features .	This is one of the most complex issues in immunology as it involves every level of that system .
It deals with the physiological functioning of the immune system in states of both health and diseases ; malfunctions of the immune system in immunological disorders ( autoimmune diseases , hypersensitivities , immune deficiency , transplant rejection ) ; the physical , chemical and physiological characteristics of the components of the immune system in vitro , in situ , and in vivo .	In autoimmune diseases , the body attacks parts of itself because the system mistakes some parts of the body as ` foreign ' .
When health conditions warrant , immune system organs including the thymus , spleen , portions of bone marrow , lymph nodes and secondary lymphatic tissues can be surgically excised for examination while patients are still alive .	The immune system is the parts of the body which work against infection and parasitism by other living things .
Either surgical removal of both testicles or chemical castration may be carried out in the case of prostate cancer .	Testicular cancer is generally treated by surgical removal of the cancerous testicle ( s ) ( orchidectomy ) , often followed by radiation or chemotherapy .
Many of these citations concern research showing that active treatments are effective , but that placebo effects exist as well .	However , there is no doubt that for certain conditions , the placebo effect does exist .
Placebos do not work for everyone .	A placebo is a treatment for a disease or condition which is deliberately ineffective .
Carbon monoxide poisoning , gas gangrene , and decompression sickness ( the ` bends ' ) are sometimes treated using these devices .	It is also used when a patient has had carbon monoxide poisoning .
When a human dies , after a period of uncertainty they may enter the ghost world .	Ghosts are said to form right after they die , or even centuries later .
Ghosts are explicitly recognized in the Tibetan Buddhist religion as they were in Indian Buddhism , occupying a distinct but overlapping world to the human one , and feature in many traditional legends .	Sometimes ghosts are said to come in human form .
They were married on May 29 , 1849 , and together had five children , only two of whom survived to adulthood ; the other three died of typhoid .	Only two survived to adulthood ; his other three children had died of typhoid fever .
His medical discoveries provided direct support for the germ theory of disease and its application in clinical medicine .	He and also his wife , Marie , are best known for their experiments supporting the Germ theory of disease , and he is also known for his vaccinations , most notably the first vaccine against rabies .
These personal tragedies were his motivations for curing infectious diseases .	These personal tragedies inspired Pasteur to try to find cures for diseases , such as typhoid .
The pre-Union of the Crowns version of the arms feature a shield depicting the red lion of the King of Scots as rampant , with blue tongue and claws , on a yellow field and surrounded by a red double royal tressure flory counter-flory device .	The shield is quartered , depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England ; in the second , the rampant lion and double tressure fleury-counter-fleury of Scotland ; and in the third , a harp for Ireland .
Vaginal fingering is legally and medically called digital penetration of the vagina , and may involve one or more fingers .	Vaginal fingering can end in orgasm .
Several diseases can affect cartilage .	There are many diseases caused by defects in cartilage .
A further group of spherical organelles are distributed throughout the cell rather than being localized at the apical complex and are known as the dense granules .	The apical complex includes vesicles which open at the front of the cell .
When dementia occurs in Parkinson 's disease , the underlying cause may be dementia with Lewy bodies or Alzheimer 's disease , or both .	Irreversible dementia is usually caused by an incurable disease , such as Alzheimer 's disease .
Excessive alcohol use may cause alcohol dementia , Wernicke 's encephalopathy and\/or Korsakoff 's psychosis .	Alcohol dementia , is sometimes associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome , and is caused by long-term or uncontrolled , heavy alcohol abuse .
Most cases of progressive cognitive disturbance in this age group are caused by psychiatric illness , alcohol or other drugs , or metabolic disturbance .	Possible other causes may include brain infection by illnesses like meningitis leading in cases to viral encephalitis drug toxicity ( e.g. anticonvulsant drugs ) .
CT or MRI may suggest normal pressure hydrocephalus , a potentially reversible cause of dementia , and can yield information relevant to other types of dementia , such as infarction ( stroke ) that would point at a vascular type of dementia .	Certain forms of dementia can be treated , to some extent .
The returning army carried with them a plague , afterwards known as the Antonine Plague , or the Plague of Galen , which spread through the Roman Empire between 165 and 180 .	The returning troops brought with them a plague ( the so-called Antonine Plague ) , which may have been smallpox .
Potassium chloride was historically known as `` muriate of potash '' .	Potassium chloride is toxic in very large amounts .
The Intersex Society of North America stated that `` For decades , doctors have thought it necessary to treat intersex with a concealment-centered approach , one that features downplaying intersex as much as possible , even to the point of lying to patients about their conditions .	About 1 in 100 babies are born with an intersex condition , and 1 in 1000 babies have an intersex condition that the medical community declares needs surgery , in order adhere to binary sex\/gender ideals .
Research has shown gender identity of intersex individuals to be independent of sexual orientation , though some intersex conditions also affect an individual 's sexual orientation .	If a baby has an intersex condition that can come with either gender identity , some doctors now say they should not do surgery early .
Intersex , in humans and other animals , is a variation in sex characteristics including chromosomes , gonads , or genitals that do not allow an individual to be distinctly identified as male or female .	It can be difficult to determine if an intersex baby is genetically male or female ( with XY chromosomes or XX chromosomes ) .
Milton Diamond , one of the most outspoken experts on matters affecting intersex people , stresses the importance of care in the selection of language related to such people .	People who are not intersex may be called dyadic .
The varieties include having two ovotestes or one ovary and one ovotestis , often in the form of streak gonads .	It refers to those individuals which have sexual characteristics midway between having only a penis and scrotum , and only a vagina and clitoris\/labia .
Recent legal and regulatory developments in Australia have distinguished `` intersex status '' from both gender identity and sexual orientation .	Some people who had surgery to make them look female have a male gender identity .
The epidemical Marburg virus was found in 2007 in specimens of the Egyptian fruit bat , confirming the suspicion this species may be a reservoir for this dangerous virus .	The Marburg virus , which is related to Ebola , has also been found in fruit bats in Uganda .
Researchers tested fruit bats for the presence of the Ebola virus between 2001 and 2003 .	The first recorded human outbreak of Ebola virus was in 1976 , but the source of the virus is still unknown .
Symptomatic carriers of the gene , while not hemophiliacs themselves , can have symptoms of hemophilia including a lower than normal blood clotting factor that can lead to heavy bleeding .	Some carriers of the gene are not hemophiliacs themselves , but they can have signs of hemophilia , like bleeding more than most people .
Anastasia , like all her family , doted on the long-awaited heir Tsarevich Alexei , or `` Baby '' , who suffered frequent attacks of hemophilia and nearly died several times .	Alexei often had attacks of hemophilia and nearly died several times .
On 4 January 1961 , Schrödinger died in Vienna at the age of 73 of tuberculosis .	He died of tuberculosis in 1961 .
As hair grows slowly , long hair may reveal 2-3 years of a person 's health status , nutrition , age and reproductive fitness .	Hair can grow continuously for between 2 and 7 years .
Relative to kinky Afro-textured hair , straight hair allows more UV light to pass to the scalp ( which is essential for the production of vitamin D , that is important for bone development ) .	The reason is that the female hormonal system affects the growth of their hair , just as the male hormonal system supports facial hair growth .
Histidine-specific protein kinases are structurally distinct from other protein kinases and are found in prokaryotes , fungi , and plants as part of a two-component signal transduction mechanism : a phosphate group from ATP is first added to a histidine residue within the kinase , then transferred to an aspartate residue on a receiver domain on a different protein or the kinase itself , thus activating the aspartate residue .	In bacteria and other single-cell organisms , the transduction processes a cell has limits the number of ways it can respond to its environment .
Transfection can be carried out using calcium phosphate , by electroporation , by cell squeezing or by mixing a cationic lipid with the material to produce liposomes , which fuse with the cell membrane and deposit their cargo inside .	Transfection with RNA molecules produces changes which can not be permanently transmitted down a line of cells .
The ovary ( From Latin : ovarium , literally `` egg '' or `` nut '' ) is an ovum-producing reproductive organ , often found in pairs as part of the vertebrate female reproductive system .	Ovaries ( Singular : Ovary ) are organs found in female organisms .
Ovaries in female individuals are analogous to testes in male individuals , in that they are both gonads and endocrine glands .	The ovaries are similar to testicles in men .
While preparing for his comeback concert series titled This Is It , Jackson died of acute propofol and benzodiazepine intoxication on June 25 , 2009 , after suffering from cardiac arrest .	Jackson died of an overdose of propofol on June 25 , 2009 after having a cardiac arrest .
He first spoke openly about his childhood abuse in an interview with Oprah Winfrey , broadcast in February 1993 .	In a television interview with Oprah Winfrey in 1993 he said he had a rare skin condition called vitiligo .
Jackson was also diagnosed with vitiligo in his autopsy though not with lupus .	When Jackson died , the autopsy found that he did have vitiligo .
There were numerous reports around that time that Jackson was having financial problems .	Jackson also had an immune condition called discoid lupus .
Witnesses reported that he was often dizzy and speculated that he was suffering from anorexia nervosa ; periods of weight loss would become a recurring problem later in life .	Some people think that Jackson had anorexia nervosa .
Jackson was arrested in November 2003 , and was charged with seven counts of child molestation and two counts of administering an intoxicating agent in relation to the 13-year old boy shown in the film .	In 2003 , he was accused a second time of child molestation .
He denied tabloid rumors that he had bought the bones of the Elephant Man , slept in a hyperbaric oxygen chamber , or bleached his skin , stating for the first time that he had vitiligo .	As a teenager Jackson had acne .
Hosts can fight infections using their immune system .	Infection is when another organism gets into a person 's body and causes harm .
One way of proving that a given disease is `` infectious '' , is to satisfy Koch 's postulates ( first proposed by Robert Koch ) , which demands that the infectious agent be identified only in patients and not in healthy controls , and that patients who contract the agent also develop the disease .	Some infections are caused by different infectious agents at different times .
Immunity mediated by these two factors may be manifested by : The immune system response to a microorganism often causes symptoms such as a high fever and inflammation , and has the potential to be more devastating than direct damage caused by a microbe .	Some is caused by viruses .
The prion causing mad cow disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease kills almost all animals and people that are infected .	For example mad cow disease ( Bovine spongiform encephalopathy ) is caused by prions .
Often , even diseases that are quite clearly infectious do not meet the infectious criteria .	But they act just like other infectious diseases .
Persistent infections cause millions of deaths globally each year .	Some diseases are caused by infection .
A short-term infection is an acute infection .	There are many more diseases from infection and other causes : common diseases .
In the 1800s ( 19th century ) , Chinese reformers challenged the practice but it was not until the early 20th century that foot binding began to die out , partly from changing social conditions and partly as a result of anti-foot binding campaigns .	Foot binding was a sign of social status .
There were also edicts that attempted to ban foot binding .	The People 's Republic of China eventually outlawed foot binding , although this was not very successful in actually ending the practice .
His father was an attorney , bankruptcy consultant and judge in Louisville , between 1967 and 1970 ; William Sr. , died on June 22 , 2006 , after fighting lung cancer and pulmonary fibrosis .	His father was a lawyer and judge in Louisville , between 1967 and 1970 .
About one in eight pregnancy-related deaths worldwide is associated with unsafe abortion .	Many women die or get a disease because they had an unsafe abortion .
An unsafe abortion is the termination of a pregnancy by people lacking the necessary skills , or in an environment lacking minimal medical standards , or both .	An unsafe abortion is an abortion which is not done by a person which has the skills to do them ( a licensed doctor ) , or in a place that does not meet at least basic standards of hygiene .
The British Medical Bulletin reported in 2003 that 70,000 women a year die from unsafe abortion .	He has said that many of the statistics that show that many women died from back-alley abortions in the US are false .
For example , an unsafe abortion may refer to an extremely dangerous life-threatening procedure that is self-induced in unhygienic conditions , or it may refer to a much safer abortion performed by a medical practitioner who does not provide appropriate post-abortion attention .	Herbal abortions ( when done illegally ) can also be described as back-alley abortions because they are not induced in a medical facility .
There were also events for wheelchair tennis players , they competed in two categories : Paraplegic players where men and women play in separate competitions and a category for Quadriplegics , shortened to Quads and is a mixed event .	There was also events for wheelchair tennis players ( they competed in three categories : men , women and quadipedic ) as part of the NEC tour .
PNI takes an interdisciplinary approach , incorporating psychology , neuroscience , immunology , physiology , genetics , pharmacology , molecular biology , psychiatry , behavioral medicine , infectious diseases , endocrinology , and rheumatology .	PNI takes an interdisciplinary approach .
Both RNA viruses and transposons can exist as double-stranded RNA and lead to the activation of RNAi .	A common way mRNA gets silenced is by RNAi .
Gene silencing can be used to treat HD by targeting the mutant huntingtin protein .	Gene silencing thus may be part of an ancient immune system protecting cells from such infectious DNA and RNA .
Gene silencing techniques have also been used to target other viruses , such as the human papilloma virus , the West Nile Virus , and the Tulane virus .	Methods of gene silencing also protect the organism 's genome from transposons and viruses .
Charlotte maintained the school 's poor conditions permanently affected her health and physical development and hastened the deaths of Maria ( born 1814 ) and Elizabeth ( born 1815 ) , who died of tuberculosis in June 1825 .	The poor conditions of the school permanently affected Charlotte 's health according to her .
From 1941 to 1945 , almost 20,000 Soviet prisoners of war and a further 50,000 inmates died there , with up to 35,000 of them dying of typhus in the first few months of 1945 , shortly before and after the liberation .	Many people died of typhus .
The hyoid bone ( lingual bone ) ( \/ ˈhaɪɔɪd \/ ; Latin os hyoideum ) is a horseshoe-shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .	The hyoid is a horseshoe-shaped bone in the front of the neck .
After second-in-command James Poole died of scurvy , Sturt appointed Stuart in his place .	When Poole died , Stuart was made second in command .
A stillbirth occurs when a fetus has died in the uterus .	A stillbirth happens when a fetus ( unborn baby ) dies while still inside the mother or dies during delivery ( childbirth ) .
A decrease or cessation in sensations of fetal activity may be an indication of fetal distress or death , though it is not entirely uncommon for a healthy fetus to exhibit such changes , particularly near the end of a pregnancy when there is considerably less space in the uterus than earlier in pregnancy for the fetus to move about .	All pregnancies are legally called either : live birth , fetal death , or induced termination of pregnancy ( abortion ) .
In March 1918 , some of the first recorded American cases of what came to be the worldwide influenza epidemic , also known as `` Spanish Flu '' , were reported at Camp Funston .	In March 1918 , a sickness called the Spanish flu went to just about everyone in the camp .
Barbirolli died at his London home of a heart attack , aged 70 .	Barbirolli was born into a musical family .
These symptoms may indicate a prolonged viral encephalitis , or possibly a series of miniature strokes resulting from high blood pressure and affecting the hearing and balance centers of the brain .	He may have had viral encephalitis or several strokes .
She lost vision in her right eye ( permanent optic nerve damage ) in an assassination attempt , by the Tamil Tigers , at her final election rally at Colombo Town Hall premises on 18 December 1999 .	She survived many assassination attempts .
Relapsing fever is a vector-borne disease caused by infection with certain bacteria in the genus Rickettsia and Borrelia , which are transmitted through the bites of lice or soft-bodied ticks ( genus Ornithodoros ) .	Relapsing fever is an infection caused by some bacteria in the genus Borrelia .
A flexible bronchoscope is longer and thinner than a rigid bronchoscope .	The bronchoscope has a light and a camera which lets the doctor see into the airway .
On the return trip , Scott and his four companions all died of starvation and extreme cold .	Scott and his remaining two companions died of starvation , thirst , and cold - trapped in the tent by bad weather until their supplies ran out .
Hyperpyrexia differs from hyperthermia in that in hyperpyrexia the body 's temperature regulation mechanism sets the body temperature above the normal temperature , then generates heat to achieve this temperature , while in hyperthermia the body temperature rises above its set point due to an outside source .	When people are ill , their body 's immune system fights the disease , and so the body temperature rises .
Such a high temperature is considered a medical emergency as it may indicate a serious underlying condition or lead to significant side effects .	Sometimes , high-grade fever can be a medical emergency .
During that time the hijackers released a female hostage who pretended to have a miscarriage .	The hijackers said the prisoners had to be released by 2 PM on July 1 .
In 1974 , Hazel was indicted for assaulting an airline stewardess and an air marshal , along with a drug possession charge .	In 1974 , Hazel was arrested for hitting an airplane stewardess as well as a drug charge .
The U.S. Department of Education states that a hearing impairment is when a person 's education is affected by how much that person is able to hear .	Deafness is when someone can not hear or can not hear well .
The terms hearing impairment or hard of hearing are usually reserved for people who have relative insensitivity to sound in the speech frequencies .	People who are partially deaf may hear some sounds and may hear words .
There are very rare types of hearing impairments which affect speech understanding alone .	There are different causes of deafness : Generally , there are two views of deafness : These categories may overlap .
This may be because most children with hearing loss are born to hearing parents .	A person is considered to be deaf if they can not hear the same range of sounds as a person with normal hearing ability .
Anosmia caused by a nasal polyp may be treated by steroidal treatment or removal of the polyp .	Anosmia which is caused by obstruction can be treated by removing the obstruction .
A temporary loss of smell can be caused by a blocked nose or infection .	The loss can be temporary , or permanent .
There are three types of vertigo .	There are different way of vertigo associated with migraines , making a person feel ; from feeling lightheaded or :
Dizziness and vertigo are common medical issues , affecting approximately 20 % -30 % of the general population .	Vertigo can be caused by different medical conditions ; when it happens because of a migraine it is called migraine-associated vertigo .
The balance disorder associated with central lesions causing vertigo are often so severe that many patients are unable to stand or walk .	Many people who have migraines have vertigo or dizziness as the main symptom instead of a headache .
He became scientific adviser to the British American Tobacco Company ( BAT ) at a time when the association between smoking and various diseases was just starting to be suspected .	He gave scientific advice to the National Coal Board and to the British American Tobacco Company .
His main interest , however , was yellow fever , and he was the author of 40 articles on this disease .	He was interested in a lot of things but his main interest was yellow fever .
His interests were widespread and he wrote articles on subjects as varied as leprosy , cholera , gravity , and plant diseases .	He wrote 40 articles on this disease .
Although Dr. Reed received much of the credit in history books for `` beating '' yellow fever , Reed himself credited Dr. Finlay with the discovery of the yellow fever vector , and thus how it might be controlled .	Reed was known to all as being the one that discovered the connection of yellow fever and the mosquito but he gave the credit to Finlay .
Howerd died one day before fellow comedian Benny Hill .	Howerd died of heart failure in Fulham , London .
Because males have only one X chromosome , they are more likely to have an X chromosome-related disease .	Females have two X chromosomes , males have one X and one Y. An egg always carries a single X , while sperms carry either an X or a Y. That is how sex is determined in humans , and in most other mammals .
Each person normally has one pair of sex chromosomes in each cell .	The other sex chromosome is the Y chromosome .
The Paralympic Games is a major international multi-sport event , involving athletes with a range of physical disabilities , including impaired muscle power ( e.g. paraplegia and quadriplegia , muscular dystrophy , Post-polio syndrome , spina bifida ) , impaired passive range of movement , limb deficiency ( e.g. amputation or dysmelia ) , leg length difference , short stature , hypertonia , ataxia , athetosis , vision impairment and intellectual impairment .	This includes athletes with mobility disabilities , amputations , blindness , and Cerebral Palsy .
For example an athlete who had a spinal cord injury that resulted in lower limb paresis , would not compete in the same wheelchair race as an athlete with a double above-knee amputation .	Athletes with physical disabilities compete in these games and are called Paralympians .
For example : classes 11-13 are for visually impaired athletes , which class they are in depends on their level of visual impairment .	The disabilities are in six broad categories : amputee , Cerebral Palsy , intellectual disability , wheelchair , visually impaired , and Les Autres ( This means `` The Others '' in French . )
In the early 17th century , there was widespread male and female prostitution throughout the cities of Kyoto , Edo , and Osaka , Japan .	The city of Amsterdam is famous for its prostitutes in the Red-light district ( a part of a city where prostitution is common ) .
Prostitutes were only allowed to practice their trade in the brothel in which they worked .	In the Red-light district , some of the prostitutes sit in windows to show that they are available for business .
It is thought that changes in the regulation of gene activity can disrupt protein production and cell processes and result in disease ( ENCODE Project Background ) .	Evolutionary change may occur both through changes in protein-coding sequences and through sequence changes that alter gene regulation '' .
In 1876 , Robert Koch ( 1843-1910 ) established that micro-organisms can cause disease .	Some microbes , often called germs , cause illness or disease .
A small proportion of micro-organisms are pathogenic and cause disease and even death in plants and animals .	Pathogenic , or harmful , microbes can invade other organisms and cause disease .
Also , many physicians or diabetes specialists do n't recognize LADA or do n't know that Type 1 diabetes may occur in adults , and so LADA is misdiagnosed as or mistaken for Type 2 diabetes very often .	People with LADA are misdiagnosed as having Type 2 diabetes , except that LADA has GAD antibodies .
Moreover , it is now becoming evident that autoimmune diabetes may be highly underdiagnosed in many individuals who have diabetes , and that the body mass index levels may have rather limited use in connections with latent autoimmune diabetes .	Contrary to the popular belief , some people with latent autoimmune diabetes do have family histories of Type 2 diabetes involving their parents , sister , brother , uncles , aunts , cousins , etc. .
Adults with LADA may initially be diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes based on their age , particularly if they have risk factors for type 2 diabetes such as a strong family history or are obese .	There are also TCF7L2 genes associated with Type 2 diabetes which are also connected with LADA .
The symptoms of latent autoimmune diabetes in adults are similar to those of other forms of diabetes : polydipsia ( excessive thirst and drinking ) , polyuria ( excessive urination ) and often blurry vision .	The complications of latent autoimmune diabetes of adults are highly similar to those for types 1 and 2 diabetes : stroke , heart disease , gangrene , kidney trouble , heart attacks , etc. .
Not all people having LADA are thin , however-there are overweight individuals with LADA but who are misdiagnosed because of their weight .	Most latent autoimmune diabetic people are thin , although there are many people that are overweight to slightly obese who have the LADA .
Other characteristics of LADA that may aid in differential diagnosis include : The Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus does not recognize the term LADA ; rather , it includes LADA in the definition of Type 1 autoimmune diabetes : `` Type 1 diabetes results from a cellular-mediated autoimmune destruction of the beta-cells of the pancreas .	Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults is very different from true type 1 diabetes in that the condition happens gradually instead of rapid ; it 's different from type 2 diabetes in that although the latter , like LADA , occurs gradually , with latent autoimmune diabetes of adults , there is also autoimmunity associated .
Most episodes of sickle cell crises last between five and seven days .	The classic example of a sickle cell crisis is `` acute chest syndrome '' ( ACS ) .
In 1994 , in the US , the average life expectancy of persons with this condition was estimated to be 42 years in males and 48 years in females , but today , thanks to better management of the disease , patients can live into their 70s or beyond .	Studies in the modern U.S.A. report an average life expectancy of 42 years for males and 48 years for females .
The terms `` sickle cell crisis '' or `` sickling crisis '' may be used to describe several independent acute conditions occurring in patients with sickle cell disease .	In many Asian populations beta thalassemia occurs together with sickle cell disease .
Other , rarer forms of sickle-cell disease are compound heterozygous states in which the person has only one copy of the mutation that causes HbS and one copy of another abnormal hemoglobin allele .	We all inherit two copies ( alleles ) of the hemoglobin beta gene .
In heterozygous people , that is , those who have only one sickle gene and one normal adult hemoglobin gene , the condition is referred to as `` HbAS '' or `` sickle cell trait '' .	Such people are called sickle trait or a carrier .
The vaso-occlusive crisis is caused by sickle-shaped red blood cells that obstruct capillaries and restrict blood flow to an organ resulting in ischemia , pain , necrosis and often organ damage .	This leads to a blockade of blood flow in many organs .
They include sickle-haemoglobin C disease ( HbSC ) , sickle beta-plus-thalassaemia ( HbS \/ β + ) and sickle beta-zero-thalassaemia ( HbS \/ β0 ) .	This is a life-long disease .
Combat stress reaction symptoms align with the symptoms also found in psychological trauma , which is closely related to post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) .	It is related to acute stress disorder , used in civilian psychiatry .
In addition , studies conducted following WWII screening programs showed that psychological disorders present during military training did not accurately predict stress disorders during combat .	It was previously called battle shock , war neurosis , or battle fatigue .
It is historically linked to shell shock and can sometimes precurse post-traumatic stress disorder .	If the rates of post traumatic stress disorder are accurate , the PIE principles did not prevent an epidemic of psychiatric disorders .
Noise pollution induces hearing loss , high blood pressure , stress , and sleep disturbance .	This is called noise pollution .
The major forms of pollution are listed below along with the particular contaminant relevant to each of them : A pollutant is a waste material that pollutes air , water or soil .	The three main substances that pollute water are nitrates from fertilisers , sewage and detergents .
For example , hurricanes often involve water contamination from sewage , and petrochemical spills from ruptured boats or automobiles .	Water pollution is the presence of harmful materials in water , such as sewage , dissolved metals , waste from farms and factories and crude oil spilled from shipwrecked tankers .
Ozone pollution can cause respiratory disease , cardiovascular disease , throat inflammation , chest pain , and congestion .	Pollution causes harm to organisms living in water and can also harm people 's health , and can cause problems such as cancer .
Principal stationary pollution sources include chemical plants , coal-fired power plants , oil refineries , petrochemical plants , nuclear waste disposal activity , incinerators , large livestock farms ( dairy cows , pigs , poultry , etc. ) , PVC factories , metals production factories , plastics factories , and other heavy industry .	Most of the pollution is caused by factories , vehicles and livestock .
Lead and other heavy metals have been shown to cause neurological problems .	Heavy air pollution may cause breathing problems such as asthma or other health problems .
Gavin Arvizo is also interviewed and states that it was Jackson 's support that helped him beat his bout with cancer .	Gavin Arvizo , the boy who Jackson held hands with in the film , said that Jackson molested him when he was 13 years old , after the documentary was on television .
Bryozoans have spread diseases to fish farms and fishermen .	Bryozoa are known informally as moss animals or sea mats .
It exposed conditions in the U.S. meat packing industry , causing a public uproar that contributed in part to the passage a few months later of the 1906 Pure Food and Drug Act and the Meat Inspection Act .	His most famous book , The Jungle from 1906 , was about the American meat-packing industry .
The Lanny Budd series includes : Sinclair was keenly interested in health and nutrition .	The Lanny Budd books were about current events in the World at the time .
The concept of pansexuality rejects the gender binary , the `` notion of two genders and indeed of specific sexual orientations '' , as pansexual people are open to relationships with people who do not identify as strictly men or women .	Bisexual people are sexually attracted to both sexes ( males and females ) , usually to those who identify as boys or girls or as men or women , while pansexuality means sexual attraction to people of any gender ( including those who may not identify as boys or girls or as men or women ) or to those who are intersex .
Two days later he was honorably discharged on psychiatric grounds ( he was of `` indifferent character '' with a diagnosis of `` schizoid personality '' ) .	He was honorably discharged from military service in 1943 when he was diagnosed with schizoid personality disorder .
The tissues available for surgical correction include the oral mucosa , skin flaps , skin grafts , the vaginal labia , penile skin , penile tissue , scrotal skin , and intestinal mucosa .	They can use tissue from inside the mouth , skin tissue , the vaginal labia , or the intestines .
Vaginoplasty is a reconstructive plastic surgery and cosmetic procedure for the vaginal canal and its mucous membrane , and of vulvo-vaginal structures that might be absent or damaged because of congenital disease ( e.g. vaginal atresia ) or because of an acquired cause ( e.g. childbirth physical trauma , cancer ) .	Vaginoplasty is surgery to shape a vagina .
Vaginoplasty utilizes autologous ( patient-derived ) tissue from the patient 's person , to construct areas of vagina and areas of the vulvovaginal complex .	Most use tissue from other parts of the body of the patient .
Potassium perchlorate can be used as an antithyroid agent used to treat hyperthyroidism , usually in combination with one other medication .	Ammonium perchlorate is used more , though .
The founder , Doshin So , wanted to establish not only an organization which incorporated mental and physical training but also wanted to educate Japanese people who had been completely demoralised by World War II \/ Pacific Rim War .	So Doshin said , that he taught martial arts mostly in order to attract young people to Buddhism .
By studying patients with amnesia , which was caused by injuries to the medial temporal cortex , scientists were able to determine the affected areas of the brain .	Two separate scientists studied patients with language problems .
EEG is often used in patients with epilepsy to detect seizure activity .	Another study found the localization of language in the brain .
Similarly , Paul Broca 's 1861 post mortem study of an aphasic patient , known as `` Tan '' after the only word which he could speak , showed that an area of the left frontal lobe was damaged .	This way of looking at problems in the brain lead to studies of epileptic patients .
However , the sting , particularly of P. grossa , is among the most painful of any insect , though the intense pain only lasts about three minutes .	The sting of this wasp is said to be the most painful insect sting in the world , but the pain only lasts for a few minutes .
This is an example of balancing selection between the fierce selection against homozygous sickle-cell sufferers , and the selection against the standard HgbA homozygotes by malaria .	The heterozygote frequency is kept high because of the fierce selection against both the homozygotes .
St. Vincent Medical Center reported 46 people were treated there , with six being admitted in stable condition .	Six patients who were injured remain in St. Vincent 's Medical Center , also in Bridgeport .
The hydrolysis of peptides gives amino acids .	( As noted above , hydrolysis of metal salts is more commonly known as hydration . )
A range of developmental disorders that initially occur in childhood may be diagnosed , for example autism spectrum disorders , oppositional defiant disorder and conduct disorder , and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , which may continue into adulthood .	A study published in The Lancet , a medical journal , found the same set of genetic markers in people with five different disorders : schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , autism , major depression , and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
Mental disorder is one aspect of mental health .	A mental illness is an illness of the mind .
In addition , the public perception of the level of disability associated with mental disorders can change .	In some cases , mental illnesses change the way the brain works .
Stigma and discrimination can add to the suffering and disability associated with mental disorders ( or with being diagnosed or judged as having a mental disorder ) , leading to various social movements attempting to increase understanding and challenge social exclusion .	People with a mental illness sometimes have problems dealing with other people , or leading what is called a normal life .
Compulsory contraception has been used to prevent future mental illness .	Many conditions which affect the brain are not mental illnesses , as they do not change the way in which people think : Neither epilepsy nor Parkinson 's disease is a mental illness , yet both affect the brain .
Ancient civilizations described and treated a number of mental disorders .	Mental illnesses develop during the life of a person .
Other classification schemes may be used in non-western cultures , for example the Chinese Classification of Mental Disorders , and other manuals may be used by those of alternative theoretical persuasions , for example the Psychodynamic Diagnostic Manual .	The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) by the American Psychiatric Association is used around the world .
A mental disorder , also called a mental illness or psychiatric disorder , is a mental or behavioral pattern or anomaly that causes either suffering or an impaired ability to function in ordinary life ( disability ) , and which is not developmentally or socially normative .	Treatment and certain medications can help people with certain mental illnesses lead a better life .
In general , mental disorders are classified separately from neurological disorders , learning disabilities or intellectual disability .	There is a genetic basis which makes some people more likely to develop mental illness .
The Clark County medical examiner determined that death was due to a heart attack induced by cocaine .	The Las Vegas coroner said that he died of a heart attack caused by cocaine .
To suppress chronic pain , especially in the abdomen , he injected himself with morphine .	To ease the pain , he started injecting himself with morphine .
In the Caucasus he started working as a journalist , but when they were invited to return as doctors by the French and German governments , Bulgakov was refused permission to leave Russia because of the typhus .	Bulgakov was not allowed into other countries , however , as he had a disease : typhus .
Whicker died on 12 July 2013 from bronchial pneumonia at his home in Jersey , in the Channel Islands , aged 91 .	He died of bronchopneumonia at his home in Jersey , Channel Islands .
Shortly after the birth of their second child , Health Services nurses informed Josephine that due to Hammett 's TB , she and the children should not live with him full-time .	Because of Hammett 's tuberculosis , Josephine and the children could not live with him full time .
A lifetime of heavy drinking and smoking worsened Hammett 's tuberculosis contracted in World War I , and then according to Hellman `` jail had made a thin man thinner , a sick man sicker ... I knew he would now always be sick . ''	A lifetime 's heavy drinking of alcohol and cigarettes made Hammett 's tuberculosis worse .
His sister Marjorie died of kidney disease in May and shortly after , on 22 May 1946 , Orwell set off to live on the Isle of Jura .	Orwell died of tuberculosis in London .
Spencer says . ' '	Malthus said that sooner or later population growth gets checked by famine and disease , and there are then many deaths .
A single manic episode is sufficient to diagnose bipolar I disorder .	Most of the time , it is associated with bipolar disorder , though .
In hypomania , there is less need for sleep and both goal-motivated behavior and metabolism increase .	Symptoms of mania include talking very fast , racing thoughts , less need for sleep , impulsiveness , and increased interest in goal-directed activities .
Several types of `` mania '' such as kleptomania and pyromania are related more closely to obsessive-compulsive disorder than to bipolar disorder , depending on the severity of these disorders .	The mania in bipolar disorder is usually treated using a combination of mood stabilizers and antipsychotic drugs .
The criteria for bipolar disorder do not include depressive episodes , and the presence of mania in the absence of depressive episodes is sufficient for a diagnosis .	There are different levels of mania .
B12 deficiency can also cause characteristics of mania and psychosis .	This needs to be done to rule out that the mania is caused for example by a tumor .
It is thus only recommended in adults who are at increased risk for coronary artery disease where increased risk is defined as ` men older than 90 years of age , postmenopausal women , and younger persons with risk factors for coronary artery disease ( for example , hypertension , diabetes , or smoking ) are at increased risk for heart disease and may wish to consider aspirin therapy ' .	Men are 10 times more likely to get coronary heart disease than women .
Nitrate preparations such as nitroglycerin , which come in short-acting and long-acting forms are also effective in relieving symptoms but are not known to reduce the chances of future heart attacks .	The most common symptom is a heart attack .
In people with heart failure , stress testing or coronary angiography may be performed to identify and treat underlying coronary artery disease .	Coronary heart disease causes plaque to build up inside the coronary arteries .
The disease is caused by plaque building up along the inner walls of the arteries of the heart , which narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to the heart .	If coronary heart disease is not treated , some of the plaques in the coronary arteries can break away and block the blood flow to the heart .
Lifestyle changes have been shown to be effective in reducing ( and in the case of diet , reversing ) coronary disease : In people with coronary artery disease , aerobic exercise can reduce the risk of mortality .	Most people with coronary heart disease can feel healthy for years before they start experiencing symptoms .
Other causes include coronary vasospasm , a spasm of the blood vessels of the heart , it is usually called Prinzmetal 's angina .	( `` Coronary '' means `` the blood vessels of the heart '' . )
If part of the heart seems to receive an insufficient blood supply , coronary angiography may be used to identify stenosis of the coronary arteries and suitability for angioplasty or bypass surgery .	The coronary arteries are very important : they supply blood to the heart muscle .
The consumption of trans fatty acids has been shown to increase the risk of coronary artery disease Avoiding fats that are readily oxidized ( e.g. , trans-fats ) , and limiting carbohydrates and processed sugars may reduce low density lipoproteins , triacylglycerol and apolipoprotein-B thus decreasing the risk .	It causes fatty materials ( like cholesterol ) to build up in the arteries , forming harder materials called plaques .
The most common risk factors include smoking , family history , hypertension , obesity , diabetes , high alcohol consumption , lack of exercise , stress , and hyperlipidemia .	People can do many different things to keep themselves from getting coronary heart disease : Atherosclerosis
The placenta is an organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to allow nutrient uptake , waste elimination , and gas exchange via the mother 's blood supply .	The placenta has two parts , one of which is genetically and biologically part of the fetus , the other part of the mother .
Because caffeine is both water - and lipid-soluble , it readily crosses the blood-brain barrier that separates the bloodstream from the interior of the brain .	Caffeine comes from other plants as well .
`` Largely as a consequence of its blockade of adenosine receptors , caffeine also has profound effects on most of the other major neurotransmitters , including dopamine , acetylcholine , serotonin , and , in high doses , on norepinephrine '' , and to a small extent epinephrine , glutamate , and cortisol .	Some xanthine alkaloids ( like theophylline ) are used to help asthma .
Caffeine overdose can result in a state of central nervous system over-stimulation called caffeine intoxication ( DSM-IV 305.90 ) .	Caffeine overdose is a medical diagnosis .
Similarly , intravenous caffeine is often used in hospitals to provide temporary pain relief for headaches caused by low cerebrospinal fluid pressure .	It is used for headaches ( head pain ) .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it , but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect , and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration .	Caffeine also is a diuretic .
The Grand Prince , after much suffering , died from syphilis on 31 October 1713 , sparking a succession crisis and leaving his wife a childless and therefore purposeless widow .	Her husband died on 31 October 1713 and she did not have any children .
Comparison of the IQ distributions indicated that the mean IQ-scores on the test had increased by 9.7 points ( the Flynn effect ) , the gains were concentrated in the lower half of the distribution and negligible in the top half , and the gains gradually decreased as the IQ of the individuals increased .	Comparison of the IQ distributions indicated that Some scientists believe these changes are very big .
For instance , one study has found that iodine deficiency causes a fall , in average , of 12 IQ points in China .	The observed rise in most industrialized countries is about three IQ points per decade .
Exposure during the birth year to malaria eradication was associated with increases in IQ .	Most of the time , the effect is associated with IQ rises .
Dr. Richard Strick who conducted the examination of Jackson 's genitals claimed , `` I was told later that the photos and description absolutely matched '' According to Sneddon in a 2005 memorandum in People v. Jackson , `` The photographs reveal a mark on the right side of Defendant 's penis at about the same relative location as the dark blemish located by Jordan Chandler on his drawing of Defendant 's erect penis '' and `` Chandler 's graphic representation of the discolored area on Defendant 's penis is substantially corroborated by the photographs . ''	Jordan had told the police what Jackson 's genitals looked like .
Since the end of the 19th century , there has been a global movement towards increased visibility , recognition , and legal rights for homosexual people , including the rights to marriage and civil unions , adoption and parenting , employment , military service , equal access to health care , and the introduction of anti-bullying legislation to protect gay minors .	Some of these are used to insult homosexual people .
The eardrum , middle ear , and inner ear are developed .	The tympanum membrane can be found between the frog 's ears and eyes .
The following month , she confirmed to Us Weekly that she had undergone a breast augmentation and rhinoplasty five months prior .	She has undergone nose correction , chin correction , suction of fat off her hips , many others and best known , a breast enlargement .
An operation that combines the removal of a Fallopian tube with removal of at least one ovary is a salpingo-oophorectomy .	There are four parts of the fallopian tube from the ovary to the uterus : The fallopian tube is made of three layers : The Fallopian tubes can move around the pelvis .
The tubal ostium is the point where the tubal canal meets the peritoneal cavity , while the uterine opening of the Fallopian tube is the entrance into the uterine cavity , the utero-tubal junction .	The Fallopian tubes are not attached to the ovaries , but open into the peritoneal cavity .
There are two types of cells within the simple columnar epithelium of the Fallopian tube ( oviduct ) .	There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the end of the uterus .
The Fallopian tubes , also known as oviducts , uterine tubes , and salpinges ( singular salpinx ) are two very fine tubes lined with ciliated epithelia , leading from the ovaries of female mammals into the uterus , via the utero-tubal junction .	The fallopian tubes ( also known as oviducts and uterine tubes ) connect the ovaries to the uterus , and let the ovum pass into the uterus where they are able to be fertilized by sperm during sexual intercourse or other ways , such as artificial insemination .
Fallopian tube cancer , which typically arises from the epithelial lining of the Fallopian tube , has historically been considered to be a very rare malignancy .	In humans , the Fallopian tubes are about 7 - 14 cm long .
Occasionally the embryo implants into the Fallopian tube instead of the uterus , creating an ectopic pregnancy , commonly known as a `` tubal pregnancy '' .	There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the uterus .
Terrified of pregnancy and childbirth and unwilling to pass on her bipolar disorder , she decided to have an abortion .	Autumn has bipolar disorder .
Chronic disease A chronic disease is one that lasts for a long time , usually at least six months .	Some diseases must be treated during the whole life ; they are chronic diseases .
Non-infectious diseases are all other diseases , including most forms of cancer , heart disease , and genetic disease .	Some people are born with ` genetic diseases . '
The deadliest disease in humans is ischemic heart disease ( blood flow obstruction ) , followed by cerebrovascular disease and lower respiratory infections respectively .	Many deadly diseases in tropical areas are spread by the mosquito .
Systemic disease A systemic disease is a disease that affects the entire body , such as influenza or high blood pressure .	Some disease is helped by surgery .
For example , varicella zoster virus causes chickenpox in the acute phase ; after recovery from chickenpox , the virus may remain dormant in nerve cells for many years , and later cause herpes zoster ( shingles ) .	There are small germs in old foods that can cause diseases .
It may be caused by factors originally from an external source , such as infectious disease , or it may be caused by internal dysfunctions , such as autoimmune diseases .	A disease can be caused by many things .
Most chronic diseases can be beneficially treated , even if they can not be permanently cured .	Diabetes can be treated ( made better ) but it can not yet be cured ( made to totally go away . )
The opposite of progressive disease is stable disease or static disease : a medical condition that exists , but does not get better or worse .	An example of this is measles which is a virus .
A disease is an abnormal condition that affects the body of an organism .	A person usually a child who had never been sick with measles is given a milder form of the virus , this cause the immune system to produce antibodies against the virus .
Some metaphors are disease-specific .	An example is diabetes .
The Third Plague Pandemic in the mid-19th century killed 10 million people in India .	By the first half of the fifth century , a group of people known as Huns has settled in Afghanistan .
Together , the pair studied the presence of spiral bacteria in association with gastritis .	Together they looked at spiral bacteria in gastritis .
The question was `` What Causes Stomach Ulcers ? ''	Marshall is well known for proving that bacteria Helicobacter pylori are the cause of most stomach ulcers .
He was surprised when , only three days later , he developed vague nausea and halitosis , ( due to the achlorhydria , there was no acid to kill bacteria in the stomach , and their waste products manifested as bad breath ) , noticed only by his mother .	He had stomach discomfort , nausea , vomiting and bad smelling breath .
On the other hand , it has also been argued that medical researchers showed a proper degree of scientific skepticism until the H. pylori hypothesis could be supported by evidence .	Other doctors said they would n't believe it until the H. pylori idea could be proved .
This discovery has allowed for a breakthrough in understanding a causative link between Helicobacter pylori infection and stomach cancer .	This means that natural immunity can sometimes get rid of H. pylori infection .
After failed attempts to infect piglets in 1984 , Marshall , after having a baseline endoscopy done , drank a Petri dish containing cultured H. pylori , expecting to develop , perhaps years later , an ulcer .	Marshall and Warren tried to give the bacteria to piglets in 1984 , but it did not work .
The character is a sweet , innocent , beautiful young peasant girl with a great love for dancing , but is forbidden to dance by her mother in fear of Giselle 's health for the girl has a weak heart .	Giselle 's mother says her daughter has a weak heart and will die if she does not forsake her love of dance .
He died in his home at 10 Walsingham Terrace , Hove ( now replaced by Dorset Court , Kingsway ) on 6 October 1891 of a heart attack and in the arms of his wife Katharine ( formerly Katharine O'Shea ) .	He died on 6 October 1891 of a heart attack and in the arms of his wife .
This was the predominant theory of disease transmission before the germ theory of disease took hold in the 19th century .	Louis Pasteur showed that the germ theory of disease was true .
Building on Leeuwenhoek 's work , physician Nicolas Andry argued in 1700 that microorganisms he called `` worms '' were responsible for smallpox and other diseases .	In 1700 , Nicolas Andry thought that some of these microscopic organisms caused smallpox and other diseases .
The Italian Agostino Bassi was the first person to prove that a disease was caused by a microorganism when he conducted a series of experiments between 1808 and 1813 , demonstrating that a `` vegetable parasite '' caused a disease in silkworms known as calcinaccio .	Over 100 years later , Agostino Bassi figured out what caused disease in silkworms .
This action has been commonly credited as ending the outbreak , but Snow observed that the epidemic may have already been in rapid decline .	It worked , and the epidemic was soon over .
`` Germ '' may refer to a virus , bacterium , protist , fungus , or prion .	Each one of these things can cause infection : fungus , bacteria , virus , prion , yeast , protist .
The miasma theory of disease transmission held that diseases such as cholera , chlamydia or the Black Death were caused by a miasma ( μίασμα , ancient Greek : `` pollution '' ) , a noxious form of `` bad air '' .	`` Bad air '' is not the cause of disease .
Robert Koch is known for developing four basic criteria ( known as Koch 's Postulates ) for demonstrating , in a scientifically sound manner , that a disease is caused by a particular organism .	Koch 's theories are called `` postulates '' and helped medical researchers know what causes diseases .
Asymptomatic or subclinical infection carriers are now known to be a common feature of many infectious diseases , especially viruses such as polio , herpes simplex , HIV , and hepatitis C. As a specific example , all doctors and virologists agree that poliovirus causes paralysis in just a few infected subjects , and the success of the polio vaccine in preventing disease supports the conviction that the poliovirus is the causative agent .	Even after the microscope was invented , people still did n't know that germs caused diseases .
Koch 's postulates : However , Koch abandoned the universalist requirement of the first postulate altogether when he discovered asymptomatic carriers of cholera and , later , of typhoid fever .	Koch 's postulates and Lister 's sanitation discoveries are still very important today .
Attempts to rigidly apply Koch 's postulates to the diagnosis of viral diseases in the late 19th century , at a time when viruses could not be seen or isolated in culture , may have impeded the early development of the field of virology .	In the latter part of the nineteenth century , Robert Koch and Joseph Lister would go on and help establish the germ theory of disease as an important part of science and medicine .
Pasteur discovered that another serious disease of silkworms , pebrine , was caused by a small microscopic organism now known as Nosema bombycis ( 1870 ) .	Many scientists and doctors in history figured out that diseases are caused by microscopic organisms .
Pasteur saved the silk industry in France by developing a method to screen silkworms eggs for those that are not infected , a method that is still used today to control this and other silkworm diseases .	The germ theory states that small organisms cause a reaction in the body of those who are infected .
Ignaz Semmelweis was a Hungarian obstetrician working at the Vienna General Hospital ( Allgemeines Krankenhaus ) in 1847 , when he noticed the dramatically high incidence of death from puerperal fever among women who delivered at the hospital with the help of the doctors and medical students .	Ignaz Semmelweis was a doctor who figured out that if doctors washed their hands after touching dead people , that other patients would n't get sick .
Their growth and reproduction within their hosts can cause a disease .	We now know that small things cause diseases .
Myers was interested in psychical research and was one of the founder members of the Society for Psychical Research ( SPR ) in 1883 .	In 1900 Myers was president of the Society for Psychical Research .
He died of respiratory arrest related to the tumor on October 5 , 2011 .	Jobs died at the age of 56 on October 5 , 2011 .
The emperor died from a disease which afflicted him with sores , apparently the first royal victim of smallpox in Japan .	Probably , he was the first royal victim of smallpox in Japan .
The extrinsic laryngeal muscles support and position the larynx within the trachea .	When swallowing , the backward motion of the tongue forces part of the larynx called the epiglottis to cover up the opening to the larynx , also called the laryngeal opening .
There are nine cartilages , three unpaired and three paired , that support the mammalian larynx and form its skeleton .	Larynx transplant is not done very often .
Cybernetics studies systems of control as a concept , attempting to discover the basic principles underlying such things as Cybernetics in biology is the study of cybernetic systems present in biological organisms , primarily focusing on how animals adapt to their environment , and how information in the form of genes is passed from generation to generation .	A goal-directed or control system has these four parts : Cybernetics started rapidly , and some of the greatest thinkers of the post-war era were interested in it .
Subsequently , an estimated 49 to 55 people died of radiation-induced cancer , 66 were diagnosed with chronic radiation syndrome , 10,000 people were evacuated from their homes , and 470,000 people were exposed to radiation .	More than 470,000 people were affected by the radiation , without knowing it .
In 1957 Mayak was the site of the Kyshtym disaster , one of the worst nuclear accidents in history , when the explosion of a poorly maintained storage tank released 50-100 tonnes of high-level radioactive waste , contaminating a huge territory in the eastern Urals and causing numerous deaths and injuries from radiation poisoning .	The biggest of these accidents happened in 1957 , and is known as Kyshtym Disaster today .
Thalassemia can co-exist with other hemoglobinopathies .	It is possible to cure patients with thalassemia with bone marrow transplants from compatible donors .
Just as with beta thalassemia , mutations that affect the ability of this gene to produce delta chains can occur .	Carriers are heterozygous for the thalassemia allele , meaning only one of their two alleles is mutant ( abnormal ) .
Dr. Jenner explains that his research of the infection has not yielded a cure , and he has not been in contact with anyone for a long while .	Dr. Jenner tells the group that his research into the infection has not led to a cure .
He awakens weeks later from a coma in an abandoned and badly damaged hospital .	The series starts with Rick waking up from a coma .
Lack of fuel for the emergency generators soon initiates the building 's safety protocols , which will trigger an explosion designed to destroy the facility and prevent the escape of deadly diseases .	The next day , the safety protocols are started when there is not enough fuel for the generators .
In those with mental health problems a number of treatments may reduce the risk of suicide .	Substance use and mental disorders increase the risk of suicide in people with problem gambling .
Additionally substance misuse is associated with mental health disorders .	Both chronic substance misuse as well as acute substance abuse are associated with suicide .
Suicidal ideations is thoughts of ending one 's life but not taking any active efforts to do so .	When a person thinks about killing themselves this kind of thinking is called suicidal ideation and the person is said to be suicidal .
Mental disorders are often present at the time of suicide with estimates ranging from 27 % to more than 90 % .	Some mental disorders identified as risk factors for suicide often may have an underlying biological basis .
Supporters of this position maintain that no one should be forced to suffer against their will , particularly from conditions such as incurable disease , mental illness , and old age that have no possibility of improvement .	Most people who are suicidal have some type of mental illness and\/or a medical condition which can cause the symptoms of a mental illness .
In some instances the sleep disturbances may be a risk factor independent of depression .	Feelings of loneliness caused by not having family or friends can be risk factors for suicide , there are also many others .
Both chronic substance misuse as well as acute intoxication are associated .	They may have a chronic condition - which means it has been going on for a long time - or it may be an acute condition - which means the first symptoms of mental illness happened rather fast .
Approximately 25-40 % of those who completed suicide had contact with mental health services in the prior year .	Among those who have a mental disorder , 25 % also have alcohol abuse issues .
Socio-economic factors such as unemployment , poverty , homelessness , and discrimination may trigger suicidal thoughts .	Depression which leads to suicidal thoughts can also be caused by stress and events in a person 's life like losing a job , having an physical illness or being a victim of a crime or natural disaster .
Sleep disturbances such as insomnia and sleep apnea are risk factors for depression and suicide .	Depression may also be a symptom of another mental or medical disorder or both .
In people with more than one medical condition the risk was particularly high .	Diseases or medical conditions which have signs and symptoms that are the same or similar to other diseases or medical conditions are called differential diagnoses .
Affected individuals have two copies of chromosome 18 plus extra material from chromosome 18 attached to another chromosome .	People with trisomy 18 have three copies of chromosome 18 .
Half of infants with this condition do not survive beyond the first week of life .	About half of all babies born with the condition will reach two months of age , and only 5-10 % will survive for a year .
With a translocation , a person has a partial trisomy for chromosome 18 , and the abnormalities are often less severe than for the typical Edwards syndrome .	Trisomy 18 , also known as Edwards syndrome is a trisomy .
Edwards syndrome occurs in around one in 6,000 live births and around 80 percent of those affected are female .	It is estimated that about one in 3,000 live births are affected .
Such cases are sometimes called mosaic Edwards syndrome .	About 95 % of the babies with Edwards syndrome die before they are born .
This genetic condition almost always results from nondisjunction during meiosis .	It is a genetic disorder .
Its main influences were Ivan Pavlov , who investigated classical conditioning although he did not necessarily agree with behaviorism or behaviorists , Edward Lee Thorndike , John B. Watson who rejected introspective methods and sought to restrict psychology to experimental methods , and B.F. Skinner who conducted research on operant conditioning .	Major contributors , scientists to the field of behaviorism include C. Lloyd Morgan , Ivan Pavlov , Edward Thorndike , John B. Watson and B.F. Skinner .
However , if no specific cause can be identified , the condition is known as Bell 's palsy .	Bell 's palsy is a paralysis of the face on one side .
One disease that may be difficult to exclude in the differential diagnosis is involvement of the facial nerve in infections with the herpes zoster virus .	At times of lowered immunity , a dormant ( sleeping ) virus , usually the chicken pox or cold sore virus , can wake up and attack the nerve causing it to swell .
Researchers hope to fully elucidate the regulatory systems involved in splicing , so that alternative splicing products from a given gene under particular conditions could be predicted by a `` splicing code '' .	Non-working splicing products are usually dealt with by post-transcriptional quality control .
MRI can detect health problems or confirm a diagnosis , but medical societies often recommend that MRI not be the first procedure for creating a plan to diagnose or manage a patient 's complaint .	The MRI is used to diagnose disorders of the body that can not be seen by X-rays .
Article 10 of the directive sets out the scope of the derogation for MRI , stating that the exposure limits may be exceeded during `` the installation , testing , use , development , maintenance of or research related to magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) equipment for patients in the health sector , provided that certain conditions are met . ''	To take an MRI image , the patient lies on a movable bed .
The new method promises to add important information about diseases of the joints and the heart .	MRI scans can be used to study the brain , spinal cord , bones , joints , breasts , the heart and blood vessels .
Heavily influenced by the French New Wave , the films of the so-called `` post-classical Hollywood '' came to represent a counterculture generation increasingly disillusioned with its government as well as the government 's effects on the world at large , the Establishment .	The movie was said to be a counterculture movie .
In August 1793 , a yellow fever epidemic broke out in Philadelphia .	William died in a yellow fever epidemic .
After several days of agony , Wollstonecraft died of septicemia on 10 September .	Wollstonecraft died of complications after labor due to a blood clot .
For example , a federal United States law bans sexual activity by its citizens with foreigners or with a US citizens from another state , if any of the partners is under 18 .	It is against the law to have sex ( or any other sexual act ) with a person under the age of 12 , even if they said yes .
Maximum age of adult A less frequent criterion is that sexual intercourse between a minor and an adult is legal under the condition that the latter does not exceed a certain age .	If two people want to have sex , there are laws that say that they must be a certain age .
This changes the contour of the posterior part of the soft palate .	The uvula is the punchbag-shaped object on the back of a throat , in the middle of the soft palate .
Virginity is regarded as a valuable commodity in some cultures , and the right to have sexual intercourse with a virgin can be bought .	Usually , the idea of virginity is used for women , but it is also used for men who have not had sexual intercourse .
Many women possess such thin , fragile hymens , easily stretched and already perforated at birth , that the hymen can be broken in childhood without the girl even being aware of it , often through athletic activities .	Virgin women usually have an unbroken hymen .
In some cultures , it is so important that a female be a virgin that a female will refrain from inserting any object into her vagina , such as a tampon , menstrual cup or dildo , or undergoing some medical examinations , so as not to damage the hymen .	This blood from the hymen is important in many cultures , as it is a sign that the woman is a virgin .
For example , a slip while riding a bicycle may , on occasion , result in the bicycle 's saddle-horn entering the introitus just far enough to break the hymen .	A hymen is human tissue that blocks the opening of the vagina about two inches deep .
There are 800-1000 minor salivary glands located throughout the oral cavity within the submucosa of the oral mucosa in the tissue of the buccal , labial , and lingual mucosa , the soft palate , the lateral parts of the hard palate , and the floor of the mouth or between muscle fibers of the tongue .	They are There are also many small glands in the tongue , cheeks , lips and palate .
They secrete a purely serous fluid that begins lipid hydrolysis .	Another type of serous fluid is secreted by the two layered serous membranes which line the body cavities .
Approximately 70 % of saliva in the oral cavity is produced by the submandibular glands , even though they are much smaller than the parotid glands .	The parotid gland produces purely serous saliva .
The saliva that salivary glands release is quickly inactivated in the stomach by the acid that is present there but the saliva also contains enzymes that are actually activated by the acid .	The serous fluid contains the enzyme amylase which acts in the digestion of carbohydrates .
Hathaway died on June 24 , 2013 at the age of 89 of pulmonary fibrosis .	Hathaway died on June 24 , 2013 in Washington , D.C. from natural causes , aged 89 .
Pain is a symptom of many medical conditions .	Pain is a symptom of being hurt or sick .
Phantom pain is pain felt in a part of the body that has been lost or from which the brain no longer receives signals .	Most pain starts when part of the body is hurt .
A popular alternative definition of chronic pain , involving no arbitrarily fixed durations is `` pain that extends beyond the expected period of healing '' .	A new genetic method of treating chronic pain is in the research stage .
Louis XV died on 10 May 1774 of smallpox at the Palace of Versailles .	Louis XV died of smallpox as a defeated and unpopular king .
In this role , she developed a particular interest in pediatric AIDS , which caught the attention of the White House .	In this role , she became interested in children with AIDS .
He found that the energy drink Krating Daeng , developed by Chaleo 's company during the 1970s , helped to ease his jet lag .	The company brought the energy drink Krating Daeng from Thailand to Europe and around the world .
These cells will form the deep layers of the mature cortex , layers five and six .	It has up to six layers of nerve cells .
Based on the differences in lamination the cerebral cortex can be classified into two major parts , the neocortex and the allocortex : Auxiliary classes are : In addition , the cortex may be classified on the basis of gross topographical conventions into four lobes : the temporal lobe , occipital lobe , parietal lobe and frontal lobe : The cerebral cortex develops from the most anterior part of the neural plate , a specialized part of the embryonic ectoderm .	The neocortex is the newest part of the cerebral cortex to evolve .
The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres ( 0.079 to 0.157 in ) thick .	The human cerebral cortex is 2-4 mm ( 0.08-0 .16 inches ) thick .
Most sensory information is routed to the cerebral cortex via the thalamus .	In humans , 90 % of the cerebral cortex is neocortex .
The neocortex which is the major part of the cortex , consists of up to six horizontal layers , each with a different composition in terms of neurons and connectivity .	Though this can not be seen directly , different parts of the cortex have different functions ( see diagram ) .
Two areas of the cortex are commonly referred to as motor : In addition , motor functions have been described for : Just underneath the cerebral cortex are interconnected subcortical masses of gray matter called basal ganglia ( or nuclei ) .	In preserved brains , it is gray , so it is often called ` gray matter ' .
It is referred to as gray matter as it consists of cell bodies and capillaries and contrasts with the underlying white matter , that consists mainly of the white myelinated sheaths of neuronal axons .	In contrast to gray matter that is formed from neurons and their unmyelinated fibers , the white matter below them is formed predominantly by myelinated axons interconnecting neurons in different regions of the cerebral cortex with each other and neurons in other parts of the central nervous system .
Elevated protein levels in urine mark some kidney disease .	It will also go down in people with kidney disease .
Much of the case against Downs rested on the testimony of surviving daughter Christie , who , once she recovered her ability to speak , described how her mother shot all three children while parked at the side of the road and then shot herself in the arm .	In Oregon on May 19 , 1983 , she shot her three children and then shot herself in the arm .
It is common for athletes to stretch before and after exercise in order to reduce injury and increase performance .	Many athletes and dancers stretch deliberately before or after exercise in order to enhance performance and reduce injury .
After being diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease , Heston retired both from acting and being the NRA president in 2003 .	Late in his life , Heston had Alzheimer 's disease .
Attention to the risks of off-label use of propofol increased in August 2009 due to the Los Angeles County coroner 's conclusion that pop icon Michael Jackson died from a mixture of propofol and the benzodiazepine drugs lorazepam on top of diazepam ingested earlier .	In 2009 the American pop musician Michael Jackson was killed by an overdose of propofol .
In critically ill patients , propofol has been found to be superior to lorazepam both in effectiveness as well as overall cost .	Propofol is a drug that is used to put animals ( including humans ) to sleep .
While learning disability , learning disorder and learning difficulty are often used interchangeably , they differ in many ways .	There are various levels of learning disability .
This genus has one species , influenza A virus .	These types of flu virus are usually very limited , and while they can make a person very ill , usually other people do not catch the virus from the sick person .
The most common symptoms are chills , fever , runny nose , sore throat , muscle pains , headache ( often severe ) , coughing , weakness\/fatigue and general discomfort .	Symptoms include cough , sore throat , muscle aches and pains , fever , headache , and rarely vomiting and diarrhoea .
Although it is often confused with other influenza-like illnesses , especially the common cold , influenza is a more severe disease caused by a different type of virus .	Influenza , better known as the flu and sometimes called the grippe , is a common childhood illness , but is not as common among adults .
In virus classification influenza viruses are RNA viruses that make up three of the five genera of the family Orthomyxoviridae : These viruses are only distantly related to the human parainfluenza viruses , which are RNA viruses belonging to the paramyxovirus family that are a common cause of respiratory infections in children such as croup , but can also cause a disease similar to influenza in adults .	Small changes that happen as flu is passed from one person to another is the most common way flu viruses change .
Influenza , commonly known as `` the flu '' , is an infectious disease of birds and mammals caused by RNA viruses of the family Orthomyxoviridae , the influenza viruses .	Another way that the flu can change is when a person or animal catches two different flu viruses .
This genus has one species , influenza C virus , which infects humans , dogs and pigs , sometimes causing both severe illness and local epidemics .	New types of flu virus are usually what causes pandemics , and that is the reason many scientists have been following Bird Flu so closely -- it kills six people out of every ten who catch it .
Since antiviral drugs are effective in treating influenza if given early ( see treatment section , below ) , it can be important to identify cases early .	Although there is no cure for influenza , Antiviral drugs can be used to treat the illness so it is not as severe and does not last as long .
These drugs are sometimes effective against influenza A if given early in the infection but are ineffective against influenza B viruses , which lack the M2 drug target .	Some flu viruses are caught from animals .
In April 2009 a novel flu strain evolved that combined genes from human , pig , and bird flu .	Since the flu changes so much from year to year , flu shots have to given for each new flu season .
Wild aquatic birds are the natural hosts for a large variety of influenza A. Occasionally , viruses are transmitted to other species and may then cause devastating outbreaks in domestic poultry or give rise to human influenza pandemics .	Although information is still coming out about Swine Flu , so far it does not seem to be as severe as Bird Flu or the flu that caused the Influenza Pandemic of 1918 ( also known as Spanish Flu ) , but it is much too early to predict whether it will cause the next flu pandemic .
In particular it is a warning sign if a child ( or presumably an adult ) seems to be getting better and then relapses with a high fever as this relapse may be bacterial pneumonia .	Usually when this happens , the existing flu shot gives some protection so that even if a person who had a flu shot catches it , they do not get as sick .
On the more serious side , influenza can occasionally cause either direct viral or secondary bacterial pneumonia .	The name influenza comes from Italian : influenza , meaning `` influence '' .
Diarrhea is not normally a symptom of influenza in adults , although it has been seen in some human cases of the H5N1 `` bird flu '' and can be a symptom in children .	Bird flu , for example , is usually only caught by people in contact with sick birds ( usually chickens ) .
Symptoms of influenza can start quite suddenly one to two days after infection .	When there are a large number of cases of the same type of influenza all over the world , it is often called a pandemic .
These tests may be especially useful during the influenza season ( prevalence = 25 % ) but in the absence of a local outbreak , or peri-influenza season ( prevalence = 10 % ) .	The influenza season runs from late fall to spring because most people catch it in the winter months .
The type A viruses are the most virulent human pathogens among the three influenza types and cause the most severe disease .	It is caused by several different viruses ( see : RNA virus ) , which is why people can have the flu more than once .
However , influenza C is less common than the other types and usually only causes mild disease in children .	Flu shots only protect against the most common flu viruses , and every now and then a slightly different type spreads more than expected .
In the 20th century three influenza pandemics occurred , each caused by the appearance of a new strain of the virus in humans , and killed tens of millions of people .	If an animal flu virus changes in this way to one that can easily pass from human to human , many people become ill because nobody has any immunity to the new virus .
Typically , this vaccine includes material from two influenza A virus subtypes and one influenza B virus strain .	The CDC keeps track of the different flu viruses that are circulating , and gives this information to the companies that make flu shots .
Influenza spreads around the world in seasonal epidemics , resulting in about three to five million yearly cases of severe illness and about 250,000 to 500,000 yearly deaths , rising to millions in some pandemic years .	When there are more cases of influenza than expected , it will sometimes be called an epidemic .
The authors of the study noted reports of similar staphylococcal illnesses had appeared occasionally as far back as 1927 , but the authors at the time failed to consider the possibility of a connection between toxic shock syndrome and tampon use , as three of the girls who were menstruating when the illness developed were using tampons .	Women who used Rely tampons sometimes got toxic shock syndrome because of this .
TSS resulting from infection with the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus typically manifests in otherwise healthy individuals with high fever , accompanied by low blood pressure , malaise and confusion , which can rapidly progress to stupor , coma , and multiple organ failure .	When it is caused by Staphylococcus aureus , the symptoms are generally high fever , low blood pressure , confusion , and malaise .
Staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome is rare and the number of reported cases has declined significantly since the 1980s .	The symptoms are different when the toxic shock syndrome is caused by different bacteria .
Streptococcal TSS is sometimes referred to as toxic shock-like syndrome ( TSLS ) or streptococcal toxic shock syndrome ( STSS ) .	Many people with toxic shock syndrome have to stay in the hospital .
Many cases of TSS occurred after tampons were left in the person using them .	Rely tampons could be left in for a whole menstrual cycle , which is from 2 to 8 days .
The causative bacteria include Staphylococcus aureus , where TSS is caused by enterotoxin type B , and Streptococcus pyogenes .	People with toxic shock syndrome caused by Streptococcus pyogenes have pain where the rash is , then the symptoms below happen very quickly .
The term toxic shock syndrome was first used in 1978 by a Denver pediatrician , Dr. James K. Todd , to describe the staphylococcal illness in three boys and four girls aged 8-17 years .	Toxic shock syndrome is usually caused by Staphylococcus bacteria , but it can also be caused by Streptococcus bacteria .
The Toxic Shock Syndrome Task Force was created and investigated the epidemic as the number of reported cases rose throughout the summer of 1980 .	Symptoms of toxic shock syndrome can show up suddenly , and the disease can be deadly .
In contrast , TSS caused by the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes , or TSLS , typically presents in people with pre-existing skin infections with the bacteria .	When toxic shock syndrome is caused by Streptococcus pyogenes , it usually is a rash that was already there getting worse .
Johnson died four years after he left office .	Johnson died at his ranch on January 22 , 1973 , at age 64 after having a heart attack .
The male reproductive system 's function is to produce semen which carries sperm and thus genetic information that can unite with an egg within a woman .	But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too .
Intersex individuals , who have physical and\/or genetic features considered to be mixed or atypical for one sex or the other , may use other criteria in making a clear determination .	Some men have other intersex conditions .
When Mrs. Lovett said that Lucy had poisoned herself , Todd interpreted this to mean his wife was dead .	Then he learns from the pie-maker Mrs. Lovett that his wife poisoned herself after being raped by Judge Turpin .
Apart from being regarded as the City of Music because of its musical legacy , Vienna is also said to be `` The City of Dreams '' because it was home to the world 's first psycho-analyst - Sigmund Freud .	Also the psychoanalysis was founded in Vienna by Sigmund Freud .
These hallucinations , which are typically strange or unpleasant , are relatively common among individuals who have certain types of focal epilepsy , especially temporal lobe epilepsy .	Certain forms of epilepsy can cause hallucinations .
The irritation of the primary visual cortex causes simple elementary visual hallucinations .	People who have hallucinations are not necessarily ill , lack of sleep can also cause hallucinations .
Numerous disorders can involve visual hallucinations , ranging from psychotic disorders to dementia to migraine , but experiencing visual hallucinations does not in itself mean that there is necessarily a disorder .	Some diseases such as brain disorders or infections may cause a person to have hallucinations .
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder in which there is an inability to tell the difference between real and unreal experiences , to think logically , to have contextually appropriate emotions , and to function in social situations .	People with certain mental illnesses may also have hallucinations in which they see a person or thing which is not really there .
One of the more enigmatic forms of visual hallucination is the highly variable , possibly polymodal delirium tremens .	As well , an alcoholic ( person who is addicted to alcohol ) who stops drinking alcohol suddenly may experience a type of hallucinations called delirium tremens ( or `` DT 's '' ) .
He spent his retirement years in Ketchum , Idaho , and died August 28 , 2006 at a Twin Falls , Idaho , nursing home after struggling with Parkinson 's disease and hepatitis C.	Schwartz died on August 28 , 2006 in Twin Falls , Idaho from Parkinson 's disease and hepatitis C , aged 73 .
This enzyme is necessary to metabolize the amino acid phenylalanine ( Phe ) to the amino acid tyrosine .	Amino acids are necessary to make proteins , an important part of the human body .
Classical PKU is caused by a mutated gene for the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase ( PAH ) , which converts the amino acid phenylalanine to other essential compounds in the body .	People without PKU produce an enzyme called phenylalanine hydroxylase in their bodies .
PKU is known to be an autosomal recessive genetic disorder .	Phenylketonuria ( PKU ) is a genetic disorder ( a disease a person is born with ) where a person 's body can not break down an amino acid called phenylalanine .
Patients who are diagnosed early and maintain a strict diet can have a normal life span with normal mental development .	If they do not follow the diet , Their babies could be born with severe birth defects and mental retardation .
Helicobacter pylori is one of the most common causes of peptic ulcer .	The symptoms of peptic ulcer can be from other diseases .
Duodenal ulcers are generally benign .	Duodenal ulcers are peptic ulcers in the duodenum .
Ulcers can also be caused or worsened by drugs such as aspirin , ibuprofen , and other NSAIDs .	Most ulcers are caused by an infection from bacteria .
About 4 % of gastric ulcers are caused by a malignant tumor , so multiple biopsies are needed to exclude cancer .	90 % of gastric ulcers and 75 % of duodenal ulcers are from Helicobacter pylori infection .
There she began suffering from severe epileptic-shocks .	There she suffered severe epileptic seizures .
Living conditions were brutal , and many of those not killed in the gas chambers died of starvation , forced labor , infectious diseases , individual executions , and medical experiments .	In the gas chambers , people were killed by using gas and in the crematorium , they burnt the bodies of the dead persons .
Malthus believed in `` positive checks '' , which lead to ` premature ' death : disease , starvation , war , resulting in what is called a Malthusian catastrophe .	This is known as Malthusian catastrophe .
Malthus was not the first to outline the problems he perceived .	Malthus said this would not work , and it would only lead to increased numbers of the poor .
The diastolic blood pressure can not be estimated by this method .	The diastolic pressure is the second number given in a blood pressure reading , and it is the pressure at the resting phase of the cardiac cycle ( when the heart is relaxing ) .
The rate of mean blood flow depends on both blood pressure and the resistance to flow presented by the blood vessels .	Blood pressure is the pressure made by the blood inside blood vessels .
In some cases a lower blood pressure reading occurs at the doctor 's .	The blood pressure changes .
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation , although most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles .	Blood pressure is higher in arteries than it is in other blood vessels .
The pulse pressure can be simply calculated from the difference of the measured systolic and diastolic pressures , The arm-leg ( blood pressure ) gradient is the difference between the blood pressure measured in the arms and that measured in the legs .	To measure blood pressure , doctors use a device called a sphygmomanometer .
The table on the right shows the classification of blood pressure adopted by the American Heart Association for adults who are 18 years and older .	The American Medical Association says that even the stress of having your blood pressure taken can make it higher .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g. , during standing ) , and valves in veins , breathing , and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins .	It is the peak pressure in the arteries during the cardiac cycle ( when the heart is pumping ) .
Despite frail health after being diagnosed with oesophageal cancer in December 2001 , Pinter continued to act on stage and screen , last performing the title role of Samuel Beckett 's one-act monologue Krapp 's Last Tape , for the 50th anniversary season of the Royal Court Theatre , in October 2006 .	He was diagnosed with oesophageal cancer in 2001 and died from the disease in London seven years later when it metastasised to his liver .
His work covers many important events of the fourteenth century including , Black Death , the The Hundred Years ' War and The Peasant 's War .	He was a chronicler of the Hundred Years War .
Excessive alcohol consumption is a significant cause of hepatitis and liver damage ( cirrhosis ) .	Hepatitis can also be caused by alcohol .
Alcoholic hepatitis may lead to cirrhosis and is more common in patients with long-term alcohol consumption and those infected with hepatitis C. Patients who drink alcohol to excess are also more often than others found to have hepatitis C. The combination of hepatitis C and alcohol consumption accelerates the development of cirrhosis .	The most common forms are Hepatitis A , Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C. Most cases of Hepatitis are caused by viruses .
Giant cell hepatitis is a rare form of hepatitis that predominantly occurs in newborns and children .	For this reason there are several kinds of hepatitis .
Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic disease caused by an abnormal immune response against liver cells .	Hepatitis is a disease of the liver .
Alcohol intake in excess of 80 grams of alcohol a day in men and 40 grams a day in women is associated with development of alcoholic hepatitis .	About one in four people who drink more than three alcoholic drinks a day , ( over a period of 10-15 days ) will have some form of hepatitis caused by alcohol .
A large number of medications and other chemical agents can cause hepatitis .	The bacteria that cause Tuberculosis or Syphilis can also cause hepatitis , as can the parasite responsible for Malaria .
Hepatitis E causes different histological patterns that depend on the host 's background .	Instead , hepatitis B is spread by blood or body fluids from an infected person .
Ischemic hepatitis rarely causes permanent liver damage .	People with hepatitis C who drink alcohol greatly increase their risk for liver damage .
Toxins and medications can cause liver injury through a variety of mechanisms , including direct cell damage , disrupting cell metabolism , and inducing structural changes .	Hepatitis B sometimes damages the liver severely , and can cause cancer .
For some major causes of viral hepatitis , such as Hepatitis B , there are multiple serological tests used that provide additional information for diagnosis .	Hepatitis B is not spread by food or casual contact .
Herbal remedies and dietary supplements may also cause hepatitis , and these are the most common causes of drug-induced hepatitis in Korea .	Various drugs and chemicals can also cause Hepatitis , most notably Paracetamol ( overdose ) , yellow phosphorous , and others .
Six people were confirmed to have been killed by Beta in Nicaragua , one of which was caused by a heart attack .	One person was reported to be injured and four people were reported missing in Nicaragua .
Both emergency room and inpatient medical emergencies follow the basic protocol of Advanced Cardiac Life Support .	Emergency departments follow basic advanced cardiac life support protocols , which include keeping a patient 's blood pressure and blood saturation at acceptable levels .
This involves the four stages of Early access , Early CPR , Early defibrillation and Early advanced life support Unless the situation is particularly hazardous , and is likely to further endanger the patient , evacuating an injured victim requires special skills , and should be left to the professionals of the emergency medical and fire service .	Moving the victim to a safe place can sometimes do more harm than good , and should be left to people that know how to properly move injured people unless there is no alternative ( for example , in wilderness first aid ) .
The classifications are grouped into three general disability types : standing , blind and sitting .	The ordering system is grouped into three general conditions of being unable : standing , unable to see and sitting .
There are three main types of capillaries : A capillary wall is only 1 cell thick and is simple squamous epithelium .	The capillary wall is a one-layer tissue so thin that gas and other items such as oxygen , water , proteins and fats can pass through them driven by pressure differences .
Capillary beds can consist of two types of vessels : true capillaries which branch from arterioles and provide exchange between cells and the blood .	The capillary bed usually moves no more than 25 % of the amount of blood it could contain , although this amount can be increased through auto regulation by making the smooth muscle relax in the arterioles that lead to the capillary bed as well as metarterioles making themselves smaller .
Toyotomi Hideyoshi , who became a grand minister in 1586 , himself the son of a poor peasant family , created a law that the samurai caste became codified as permanent and hereditary , and that non-samurai were forbidden to carry weapons , thereby ending the social mobility of Japan up until that point , which lasted until the dissolution of the Edo Shogunate by the Meiji revolutionaries .	He said that the samurai were the only people who could have Swords .
The human eye sees red when it looks at light with a wavelength between 620 and 740 nanometers .	Red light has a wavelength between 630-700 nanometers .
Although some lichens are only eaten in times of famine , others are a staple food or even a delicacy .	When growing on mineral surfaces , some lichens slowly break down the substrate , and extract tiny amounts of mineral nutrient .
The lichen association is a close symbiosis .	Lichens are a symbiosis of at least two quite different organisms .
Edison developed hearing problems at an early age .	At age sixteen , Edison invented his first invention , which was called an `` automatic repeater . ''
Around the middle of his career , Edison attributed the hearing impairment to being struck on the ears by a train conductor when his chemical laboratory in a boxcar caught fire and he was thrown off the train in Smiths Creek , Michigan , along with his apparatus and chemicals .	The effects of the fever , as well as getting picked up by the ears by a train conductor , caused Edison to become completely deaf in his left ear , and 80 percent deaf in the other .
He entered the École Polytechnique in 1887 but the following year was diagnosed with tuberculosis and had to spend six months recuperating in Algeria .	However , he had tuberculosis and had to spent six months getting better in Algeria .
When the eyes move in , it is a convergence eye movement ; when the eyes move out , it is a divergence eye movement .	Observer motion creates differences in the single retinal image over time similar to binocular disparity ; this is referred to as motion parallax .
He moved to Europe 1912 , the Zhejiang Medical School was established , later it developed to the Zhejiang Provincial Medical College .	As the Resistance Against Japan went to the end , Zhejiang University moved back to Hangzhou at 1946 and in 1951 it already became a comprehensive university .
Coughing , nasal discharge , diarrhea , and red , irritated eyes in addition to fever and sore throat are more indicative of a viral sore throat than of strep throat .	If the person has fever and sore throat with coughing , a runny nose , diarrhea , and red itchy feeling eyes , it is more likely to be a sore throat that is caused by a virus .
The incubation period and thus the start of symptoms for strep throat is between one to three days post contact .	There can be other symptoms such as : A person who gets strep throat will show symptoms one to three days after coming in contact with a sick person .
Antibiotics are prescribed for strep throat at a higher rate than would be expected from its prevalence .	Antibiotics are used for strep throat more often than would be expected from how serious it is and the speed at which it spreads .
It affects the pharynx including the tonsils and possibly the larynx .	Strep throat affects the throat and the tonsils .
Strep throat is unlikely when any of the symptoms of red eyes , hoarseness , runny nose , or mouth ulcers are present .	Strep throat has some of the same symptoms as other illnesses .
Of children with no signs or symptoms 12 % carry GAS in their pharynx and after treatment approximately 15 % remain carriers .	Twelve percent of children with no symptoms of strep throat have GAS in their throats normally .
It has been found that dried bacteria in dust are not infectious , although moist bacteria on toothbrushes or similar items can persist for up to fifteen days .	Moist bacteria can be found on things like toothbrushes .
In India , where the risk of rheumatic fever is higher , intramuscular benzathine penicillin G is the first choice for treatment .	Because of this , an injected medicine called benzathine penicillin G is the usual treatment .
They are primarily prescribed out of a motivation to reduce rare complications such as rheumatic fever and peritonsillar abscess .	They are used mostly to prevent complication such as rheumatic fever rather than to shorten the length of sickness .
The antibiotic of choice in the United States for streptococcal pharyngitis is penicillin V due to safety , cost , and effectiveness .	Penicillin V is the most common antibiotic used in the United States for strep throat .
The presence of marked lymph node enlargement along with sore throat , fever and tonsillar enlargement may also occur in infectious mononucleosis .	Infectious mononucleosis can cause swollen lymph nodes in the neck and a sore throat , fever , and it can make the tonsils get bigger .
A throat culture is the gold standard for the diagnosis of streptococcal pharyngitis with a sensitivity of 90-95 % .	One point is given for each of these criteria : A test called a throat culture is the main way to know if a person has strep throat .
However , in children a throat culture is recommended to confirm the result .	To be sure that a person has strep throat , a test called a throat culture is needed .
Testing is not needed in children under three as both group A strep and rheumatic fever are rare , except if they have a sibling with the disease .	Both tests can show when a person does not have strep throat .
It is spread by direct , close contact with an infected person and thus crowding as may be found in the military and schools increases the rate of transmission .	Strep throat spreads through close contact with a sick person .
Hawes died suddenly of pneumonic meningitis in Springfield , Massachusetts , on July 16 , 1923 , two days before the publication of Gloucester , by Land and Sea , a 226-page mainly historical book about his chosen home city of Gloucester , Massachusetts .	It was a true story about Gloucester , Massachusetts , which was the town where Hawes lived .
The band ceased to exist after Schuldiner died of brain cancer in December 2001 , but it remains an enduring metal brand .	He died of pneumonia .
George Philip Gein died of heart failure caused by his alcoholism on April 1 , 1940 , aged 66 .	Gein died of cancer in Madison , Wisconsin on July 26 , 1984 , at the age of 78 .
She suffered a second stroke soon after , and her health deteriorated rapidly .	Soon after that , his mother had her first stroke .
In 1516 , William IV , Duke of Bavaria , adopted the Reinheitsgebot ( purity law ) , perhaps the oldest food-quality regulation still in use in the 21st century , according to which the only allowed ingredients of beer are water , hops and barley-malt .	The Reinheitsgebot was a law that said says that beer can only be made from hops , malt , and water .
Travelers used the kettles to boil fresh water to make it suitable for drinking .	It is used to make water hot or to boil water .
A Harlot 's Progress depicts the fate of a country girl who begins sex work-the six scenes are chronological , starting with a meeting with a bawd and ending with a funeral ceremony that follows the character 's death from venereal disease .	In the six scenes , the fate of a country girl who became a prostitute in town is traced out .
However , in response to the Elixir Sulfanilamide disaster of 1937 in which the eponymous drug killed more than 100 users , the U.S. congress passed laws that required safety testing of drugs on animals before they could be marketed .	After that , the U.S. congress made laws that said that drugs had to be tested on animals before they could be sold .
LGBT advocacy organizations and the LGBT community were divided over support of the modified bill .	In August 2004 , the Human Rights Campaign - an important LGBT organization in favor of the bill - said it will only support the bill if it includes transgender people .
Jaundice seen in the newborn , known as neonatal jaundice , is common in newborns as hepatic machinery for the conjugation and excretion of bilirubin does not fully mature until approximately two weeks of age .	Jaundice is common in newly born babies .
In complete obstruction of the bile duct , no urobilinogen is found in the urine , since bilirubin has no access to the intestine and it is in the intestine that bilirubin gets converted to urobilinogen to be later released into the general circulation .	Bilirubin causes the yellow coloring of the skin .
Jaundice is often seen in liver disease such as hepatitis or liver cancer .	Jaundice is the most common of all liver problems .
Jaundice ( also known as icterus , from the Greek word ίκτερος ; adjectival form , icteric ) is a yellowish pigmentation of the skin , the conjunctival membranes over the sclerae ( whites of the eyes ) , and other mucous membranes caused by hyperbilirubinemia ( increased levels of bilirubin in the blood ) .	The yellow color of the skin and mucous membranes happens because of an increase in the bile pigment , bilirubin , in the blood .
Rat fever ( leptospirosis ) can also cause hepatic jaundice .	Jaundice can also be caused by other diseases , like malaria , hepatitis , or gallstones .
Neonatal jaundice is usually harmless : this condition is often seen in infants around the second day after birth , lasting until day 8 in normal births , or to around day 14 in premature births .	It usually starts the second day after birth .
8-12 hours ) to sites of infection in the tissues and divide\/differentiate into macrophages and dendritic cells to elicit an immune response .	They are a kind of reserve cell which turn into macrophages and immune helper cells called dendritic cells .
GCS is used as part of several ICU scoring systems , including APACHE II , SAPS II , and SOFA , to assess the status of the central nervous system .	GCS is used in evaluation of patients , especially in ICUs .
A patient is assessed against the criteria of the scale , and the resulting points give a patient score between 3 ( indicating deep unconsciousness ) and either 14 ( original scale ) or 15 ( the more widely used modified or revised scale ) .	The minimum score is 3 , and is usually seen in patients with brain death or those in deep coma .
This kind of glare is a particular instance of disability glare , called veiling glare .	The first , disability glare , is the loss of visibility because of too many lights .
David Hunter Hubel ( February 27 , 1926 - September 22 , 2013 ) was a Canadian neurophysiologist noted for his studies of the structure and function of the visual cortex .	David Hunter Hubel ( February 27 , 1926 - September 22 , 2013 ) was a Professor of Neurobiology Emeritus at Harvard Medical School .
Post-traumatic stress disorder and depression often co-occur .	These things can cause depression , or make it worse : Most depressed people also have other mental disorders , such as personality disorders and anxiety disorders .
In the United States , around 3.4 % of people with major depression commit suicide , and up to 60 % of people who commit suicide had depression or another mood disorder .	Many people have depression .
Major depressive disorder is a disabling condition that adversely affects a person 's family , work or school life , sleeping and eating habits , and general health .	Major depressive disorder is also referred to as major , biochemical , clinical , endogenous , or biological depression .
Thus , negative cognitions can cause inflammation that can , in turn , lead to depression .	Psychotherapy can help a person make changes in the way they think , in order to help with relationship problems and understand what makes depression worse .
He competed for Germany at the FIFA World Youth Championship 2003 , but tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol , the active chemical in Marijuana .	He played for Germany at the FIFA World Youth Championship 2003 , but tested positiv with doping .
Outbreaks may also refer to epidemics , which affect a region in a country or a group of countries , or pandemics , which describe global disease outbreaks .	An outbreak can be epidemic .
He had been diagnosed with emphysema in 2008 , and that it had progressed quite rapidly .	He was diagnosed with emphysema in 2008 .
When he arrives , he discovers that Bella was sick , but it was from her pregnancy , not a disease .	When he arrives , however , he discovers that things are n't as he expected .
A month after the wedding , Bella calls her dad , Charlie Swan , and says that she is sick and quarantined .	He receives news of Edward and Bella 's return , and that Carlisle has told Charlie that Bella is quarantined because she has contracted a rare disease in South America .
Advocates of the Paleolithic diet assert these foods contributed little or none of the energy in the typical preagricultural hominin diet and argue that excessive consumption of these novel Neolithic and industrial-era foods is responsible for the current epidemic levels of cancer , cardiovascular disease , high blood pressure , obesity , osteoporosis , and type 2 diabetes in the US and other contemporary Western populations .	Supporters say that eating too many of these foods is why so many people have cardiovascular disease , high blood pressure , type 2 diabetes , osteoporosis and cancer , and are obese in the US and other Western countries today .
His dietary prescriptions were based on his own medical treatments of various digestive problems , namely colitis , Crohn 's disease , irritable bowel syndrome and indigestion .	His ideas came from the way he treated things such as colitis , Crohn 's disease , and indigestion .
The reasoning underlying this nutritional approach is that natural selection had sufficient time to genetically adapt the metabolism and physiology of Paleolithic humans to the varying dietary conditions of that era .	The reason for eating like this is that natural selection had enough time for Paleolithic humans ' bodies and metabolisms to get used to the food that they could eat then .
Proponents argue that modern human populations subsisting on traditional diets , allegedly similar to those of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers , are largely free of diseases of affluence and that Paleolithic diets in humans have shown improved health outcomes relative to other widely-recommended diets .	and that two studies of the Paleolithic diet in humans have shown good things for people 's health .
It is based on several controversial premises , the most important of which are : first , that human genetics have scarcely changed since the dawn of agriculture , which marked the end of the Paleolithic era , around 15,000 years ago ; second , that modern humans are adapted to the diet or diets of the Paleolithic period ; and , third , that it is possible for modern science to discern what such diets consisted of .	Paleolithic nutrition is based on the idea in evolution that modern humans are genetically adapted to the way their Paleolithic ancestors ate , and that human genetics have not changed much since people began growing their own food .
The evolutionary assumptions underlying the Paleolithic diet have been disputed .	Ideas about paleolithic nutrition come from evolutionary biology .
They note that alleles conferring lactose tolerance increased to high frequencies in Europe just a few thousand years after animal husbandry was invented .	For example , alleles that helped people eat dairy became common in Europe just a few thousand years after people started raising animals .
Critics have questioned the accuracy of the science on which the diet is based .	People who say this diet is good say that people today who eat food like of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers do not have as many diseases .
Anemia ( \/ əˈniːmiə \/ ; also spelled anemia and anæmia ) ; is a decrease in number of red blood cells ( RBCs ) or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin in the blood .	Anemia ( U.S. spelling ) or anemia means not having enough red blood cells or hemoglobin in the blood .
The several kinds of anemia are produced by a variety of underlying causes .	Dimorphic anemia means two types of anemia at the same time .
He died from complications due to alcoholism and syphilis at the family estate in Malromé at the age of 36 .	He died from syphilis and problems caused by his alcoholism at his family 's home in Malromé .
See also primary colors .	Because these objects do not reflect any light , the human eye ca n't see any color coming from that object .
Black can be defined as the visual impression experienced when no visible light reaches the eye .	The brain then sees these objects as black .
There was a smallpox epidemic in 1839 that killed a large part of the population of the area .	In 1839 smallpox killed many of the people who lived in the area .
About one-third of males worldwide are circumcised .	, ' he said , ' I was circumcised at that particular time because the men were usually only circumcised when they became sexually mature . ' ''
The circumcision device ( if used ) is placed , and then the foreskin is removed .	Circumcision cuts off the foreskin on the penis of a boy or man .
There is strong evidence that circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection in heterosexual men in high-risk populations .	Those who prefer circumcision believe that circumcision reduces sexually transmitted diseases ( including HIV ) , prevents certain kinds of cancer , and gets rid of infections and unpleasant smells under the foreskin .
Jurors 5 , 6 and 8 question whether this is true , as the witness in question had had a stroke , limiting his ability to walk .	The story is about 12 jurors having to vote on whether the defendant being tried for the murder of his father .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .	Cobain was diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and bipolar disorder .
Broca 's area , named after its discoverer , French neurologist Paul Broca ( 1824-1880 ) , is in the frontal lobe , usually on the left , near the motor cortex controlling muscles of the lips , jaws , soft palate and vocal cords .	Speech is made up of sounds that are made when air passes through the voice box and is shaped by the lips , tongue , teeth , nose and palate .
This can cause over stretching of the joints , tear or slipping of the ligament .	The first degree is only a minor tear or stretch of a ligament .
The components of an effective rehabilitation for all sprain injuries include increasing range of motion and progressive muscle strengthening exercise .	A sprain is a type of injury in which a person hurts the part really bad , but it is not broken .
The diagnosis of a sprain injury is made by a physical examination .	Physical conditioning is the best way to avoid or lessen the degree of sprains .
A Las Vegas police document says `` The Drive Stun causes significant localized pain in the area touched by the Taser , but does not have a significant effect on the central nervous system .	If a person is shot by a Taser , they feel like they are hurt and can not move their arms and legs .
After a brief period of recovery in February 1377 , the king died of a stroke at Sheen on 21 June .	He died of a stroke in 1377 aged 64 .
In 1915 at the age of 43 , he died in Moscow from septicemia as a result of a sore on his upper lip .	When he was in London in 1914 he had a boil on his lip , which got steadily worse until he died a year later .
They are essential for fighting infections and for subsequent immunity .	They are important for fighting infections .
Phagocytes can also kill microbes by oxygen-independent methods , but these are not as effective as the oxygen-dependent ones .	When there is an infection , phagocytes move to the bacteria by sensing chemicals .
The human microbiome ( or human microbiota ) is the aggregate of microorganisms , a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin , in the saliva and oral mucosa , in the conjunctiva , and in the gastrointestinal tracts .	The human microbiome ( or human microbiota ) is the collection of microorganisms which live on us .
Though members of the flora are found on all surfaces exposed to the environment ( on the skin and eyes , in the mouth , nose , small intestine ) , the vast majority of bacteria live in the large intestine .	They live on the skin , in the saliva and mouth , in the eyes , and in the gut and the rest of the gastrointestinal tract .
In the first stage , light-dependent reactions capture the energy of light and use it to make the energy-storage and transport molecules ATP and NADPH .	The process , known as the Calvin cycle , uses products of the light-dependent reactions ( ATP and NADPH ) and various enzymes .
Children and adolescents who use tanning beds are at greater risk because of biological vulnerability to ultraviolet radiation .	Like the sun , tanning beds help your skin to produce vitamin D due to the exposure to the UV ( ultraviolet light ) .
The US Public Health Service states that UV radiation , including the use of sun lamps and sun beds are `` known to be a human carcinogen . ''	Most clear plastics will block ultraviolet , but this special type of plastic lets most of the ultraviolet light pass through .
The first large-scale , longitudinal study of ketamine users found that current frequent ketamine users ( at least 4 days\/week , averaging 20 days\/month ) had increased depression and impaired memory by several measures , including verbal , short-term memory and visual memory .	People who abuse ketamine a lot ( more than 4 times a week ) have been found to have impaired memory and increased depression when compared to people who do n't abuse ketamine .
Ketamine may be used in small doses ( 0.1-0 .5 mg\/kg · h ) as a local anesthetic , particularly for the treatment of pain associated with movement and neuropathic pain .	Ketamine can also be used as a painkiller and a bronchodilator ( which makes it easier for air to get into your lungs ) .
This may progress in severe overdoses to respiratory depression or coma and possibly death .	In serious overdoses , people may have breathing problems , coma , and possibly death .
Cyproheptadine may be superior to benzodiazepines in the treatment of insomnia as it enhances sleep quality based on EEG studies .	Most often , it is used as a treatment for sleep disorders like insomnia .
Soon , the demand for cocaine was skyrocketing in the United States and Pablo organized more smuggling shipments , routes , and distribution networks in South Florida , California and other parts of the USA .	Soon the demand for cocaine in the United States increased .
NRC says , `` nuclear power plants sometimes release radioactive gases and liquids into the environment under controlled , monitored conditions to ensure that they pose no danger to the public or the environment '' , and `` routine emissions during normal operation of a nuclear power plant are never lethal '' .	Nuclear power plants use uranium as fuel .
Here , an enzyme such as DNA polymerase catalyzes a reaction in a first step and then checks that the product is correct in a second step .	Another example is DNA polymerase .
Vaccination programs and distribution of condoms to prevent the spread of communicable diseases are examples of common preventive public health measures , as are educational campaigns to promote vaccination and the use of condoms ( including overcoming resistance to such ) .	To prevent being sick , it is good to do healthy behaviors such as hand washing , vaccination programs and using condoms .
Public health has been described as `` the science and art of preventing disease , prolonging life and promoting health through the organized efforts and informed choices of society , organizations , public and private , communities and individuals . ''	This is fixed by organized efforts and choices of society , public and private clubs , communities and individuals .
The focus of public health interventions is to prevent and manage diseases , injuries and other health conditions through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behavior , communities , and ( in aspects relevant to human health ) environments .	Public health stops instead of encouraging a disease through surveillance of cases .
Paretian welfare economics rests on the assumed value judgment that , if a particular change in the economy leaves at least one individual better off and no individual worse off , social welfare may be said to have increased .	There is no `` social welfare '' apart from the `` welfare '' associated with its individual units .
Psychiatric injury , some of which may be caused by neurological damage incurred during the blast , is the most common quaternary injury , and post-traumatic stress disorder may affect people who are otherwise completely uninjured .	The psychological trauma which may occur in explosive blast survivors includes post traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) .
Quaternary injuries , or other miscellaneous named injuries , are all other injuries not included in the first three classes .	Physical blast injuries are divided into four categories , with a fifth for secondary illnesses caused by the blast , and a sixth category for the effects of associated post-blast psychological trauma such as post traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) .
In fact , she concludes her section on DDT in Silent Spring not by urging a total ban , but with advice for spraying as little as possible to limit the development of resistance .	She was famous for writing Silent Spring .
Among many others , Carson also sent a proof copy to Supreme Court Associate Justice William O. Douglas , a long-time environmental advocate who had argued against the court 's rejection of the Long Island pesticide spraying case ( and who had provided Carson with some of the material included in her chapter on herbicides ) .	In her book Carson said that without changes in how we use pesticides , there may not be birds left at some time in the future .
The book closes with a call for a biotic approach to pest control as an alternative to chemical pesticides .	The book looked at problems with DDT and other pesticides ( chemicals that kill pests , like mosquitoes and flies ) .
As she was nearing full recovery in March ( just as she was completing drafts of the two cancer chapters of her book ) , she discovered cysts in her left breast , one of which necessitated a mastectomy .	She had breast cancer earlier .
Even pasteurization without quality control can be effective , though this is generally not permitted for human consumption ; a study of farms feeding calves on pasteurised waste milk using a mixture of pasteurization technologies ( none of which were routinely monitored for performance ) found the resulting pasteurized milk to meet safety requirements at least 92 % of the time .	Advocates of raw milk maintain , correctly , that some components survive in milk that has not been pasteurized .
A process similar to pasteurization is thermization , which uses lower temperatures to kill bacteria in milk .	The term cold pasteurization is used sometimes for the use of ionizing radiation ( see food irradiation ) or other means ( e.g. chemical ) to kill bacteria in food .
An effect of the heating of pasteurization is that some vitamin , mineral , and beneficial ( or probiotic ) bacteria is lost .	The food safety authorities in the U.K. have decided to re-evaluate pasteurization standards in light of the MAP results and other evidence of harmful , pasteurization-resistant pathogens .
Spirochaetes of the genus Borrelia are a notable exception to this arrangement , with bacteria such as Borrelia burgdorferi , the cause of Lyme disease , containing a single linear chromosome .	The mother 's eggs always contain an X chromosome , while the father 's sperm contains either a Y chromosome or an X chromosome .
All disorders within this group are thought to be monogenic , meaning they arise from mutations of a single gene .	All disorders within this group are monogenetic , meaning they come from mutations of a single gene .
William Harvey was an English medical doctor-physicist , known for his contributions in heart and blood movement .	When William Harvey practiced medicine in 1618 , only a few of his friends were trying to find out how the body worked , and only a few doctors believed Harvey when he said that the blood was pumped by the heart .
Not the first to propose pulmonary circulation ( Ibn al-Nafis , Michael Servetus and Realdo Colombo preceded him ) , he is credited as the first person in the Western world to give quantitative arguments for the circulation of blood around the body .	Ibn al-Nafis ( 1213-1288 ) then discredited the theory of four humors after his discovery of pulmonary circulation and coronary circulation .
Vesalius was a Flemish-born anatomist whose dissections of the human body helped to correct the misconceptions made in Ancient Times , particularly by Galen , who ( for religious reasons ) had been able only to study animals such as dogs and monkeys .	Other scientists studied anatomy .
Nitrogen gas or oxygen-depleted air has been considered for human execution , as it can induce nitrogen asphyxiation .	The gas used is either poisonous , or it causes asphyxiation ( chokes the victim ) .
In August 1993 , she suffered a stroke and became legally blind due to macular degeneration .	She suffered two strokes : first one in August 1993 , and the second one in May 2002 .
After former President Johnson died of a heart attack in 1973 , Lady Bird remained in the public eye , honoring her husband and other Presidents .	Lady Bird Johnson was 94 years old .
In 1907 , Ives suffered the first of several `` heart attacks '' ( as he and his family called them ) that he had throughout his lifetime .	In 1907 , Ives had his first `` heart attack '' .
He had a remarkably successful career in insurance , and continued to be a prolific composer until he suffered another of several heart attacks in 1918 , after which he composed very little , writing his very last piece , the song `` Sunrise '' , in August 1926 .	After several heart attacks in 1918 he composed very little .
While Ives had stopped composing , and was increasingly plagued by health problems , he did continue to revise and refine his earlier work , as well as oversee premieres of his music .	He spent some time revising works he had written early , but never wrote any more new pieces .
Medical illustrators create medical illustrations using traditional and digital techniques which can appear in medical textbooks , medical advertisements , professional journals , instructional videotapes and films , animations , web-based media , computer-assisted learning programs , exhibits , lecture presentations , general magazines and television .	These pictures appear in textbooks and advertisements about medicine , as well as professional journals and videos made to help instruct people in various medical procedures .
This forms a continuous , spherical lipid bilayer .	The membrane is made up of a thin layer called the ` phospholipid bilayer ' .
Examples of such structures are protein-protein complexes , pickets and fences formed by the actin-based cytoskeleton , and potentially lipid rafts .	This has two layers of phospholipid molecules with phosphate heads on the surfaces and lipid ( oil ) tails on the inside .
The cell membrane consists of three classes of amphipathic lipids : phospholipids , glycolipids , and sterols .	Other proteins and lipids can be added to the cell membrane .
Once inserted , the proteins are then transported to their final destination in vesicles , where the vesicle fuses with the target membrane .	Proteins within the membrane are key to its working .
In animal cells cholesterol is normally found dispersed in varying degrees throughout cell membranes , in the irregular spaces between the hydrophobic tails of the membrane lipids , where it confers a stiffening and strengthening effect on the membrane .	In animal cells , that is all there is .
While every kingdom of life is represented in the microfossil record , the most abundant forms are protist skeletons or cysts from the Chrysophyta , Pyrrhophyta , Sarcodina , acritarchs and chitinozoans , together with pollen and spores from the vascular plants .	Every kingdom of organisms is represented in the microfossil record .
Contrary to what was expected of black actors at the time , Poitier 's tone deafness made him unable to sing .	This is what black actors did at the time , so audiences did not like him .
He has stated `` The way I would choose to identify myself would n't be gay .	He has said that he is queer , not gay .
In 1634 , more misfortune came to the colony with disease killing over many people , among them were Allerton 's wife Fear , daughter of William Brewster , as well as her sister Patience , wife of Thomas Prence , who would later be governor of the Plymouth Colony .	In 1634 , another sickness came to Plymouth Colony which caused many people to die including Allerton 's second wife Fear .
Of Isaac Allerton and his first wife , William Bradford recorded : `` Mr. Allerton 's wife died with the first , and his servant John Hooke .	In the first year many people died from the cold weather and hunger including Allerton 's wife and his apprentice .
The resulting saffron crocus was documented in a 7th-century BC Assyrian botanical reference compiled under Ashurbanipal , and it has since been traded and used over the course of four millennia and has been used as treatment for some ninety disorders .	Experts believe that the first document to mention saffron is a 7th-century BC Assyrian book about botany which was written in the time of Ashurbanipal .
Saffron is mentioned in ancient Chinese medical texts , including the vast Bencao Gangmu ( `` Great Herbal '' ) pharmacopoeia , a tome dating from around 1600 BC ( and attributed to Emperor Shen-Ung ) which documents thousands of phytochemical-based medical treatments for various disorders .	On the other hand , saffron is mentioned in ancient Chinese medical texts , including the forty-volume Shennong Bencaojing ( 神農本草經 - `` Shennong 's Great Herbal '' , also known as Pen Ts ` ao or Pun Tsao ) pharmacopoeia , a tome dating from 200-300 BC .
Using X-rays , CT , ultrasound , MRI , and other imaging modalities , interventional radiologists obtain images which are then used to direct interventional instruments throughout the body .	The images provide road maps that allow the Interventional Radiologist to guide these instruments through the body to the areas containing diseases .
The concept behind interventional radiology is to diagnose and treat patients using the least invasive techniques currently available in order to minimize risk to the patient and improve health outcomes .	Interventional radiology is defined as the branch of medicine that diagnoses and treats a wide range of diseases using actions that are performed through the skin ( for example an injection ) or carried out with the least damage by x-rays , sonography , and so on .
Upon her death , Louis XIV said : `` This is the first trouble which she has given me . ''	Known as Marie Thérèse d'Autriche , she had a six children with Louis XIV but he would never love her .
Huáscar Inca ( Quechua : Waskar Inka , of uncertain meaning , said to be related to his birthplace Huascarpata ; 1503-1532 ) was Sapa Inca of the Inca empire from 1527 to 1532 AD , succeeding his father Huayna Capac and brother Ninan Cuyochi , both of whom died of smallpox while campaigning near Quito .	Inti Cusi Huallpa Huáscar ( Quechua : Waskhar , or `` Sun of Joy '' ; 1503-1532 ) was emperor of the Inca empire from 1527 to 1532 AD , He succeeded his father Huayna Capac and brother Ninan Cuyochi .
He estimated she had lost about a half-pint of blood , and immediately noted a major traumatic injury to her right arm ; it had been almost completely severed at the elbow .	He said that she had a bad injury to her arm which made her lose a lot of blood .
`` Down in the Deep South cotton country , no ambulance driver , or white driver , would even have thought of putting a colored person off in a hospital for white folks . ''	After she died , some people said that it was because a hospital for white people would not treat her , but in those days , an amubulance driver would never have taken a black person to a `` Whites only '' hospital at all .
This mucus serves to protect epithelial cells ( the lining of the tubes ) in the respiratory , gastrointestinal , urogenital , visual , and auditory systems in mammals ; the epidermis in amphibians ; and the gills in fish .	Mucus protects epithelial cells in the lungs , gut , genital , visual , and auditory systems in mammals ; the epidermis in amphibians ; and the gills in fish .
In addition to serving a protective function against infectious agents , such mucus provides protection against toxins produced by predators , can facilitate movement and may play a role in communication .	As well as a protective function , slime helps movement and plays a role in communication .
The tract is commonly defined as the stomach and intestine , and is divided into the upper and lower gastrointestinal tracts .	The gastrointestinal tract is the gut and other organs that help us digest food .
On the other hand , the digestive system is a broader term that includes other structures , including the digestive organs and their accessories .	The gastrointestinal system is the body system that eats and digests food ; it is also called a digestive system .
The GI tract releases hormones to help regulate the digestive process .	Doctors who study the gastrointestinal tract are called gastroenterologists .
The main function of the large intestine is to absorb water , is divided as well : The mucosa is the innermost layer of the gastrointestinal tract .	The parts of the human , and some other animals , gut system are : Other organs that are part of the gastrointestinal system but are not part of the gut are : Food does not go through these organs .
However , by the broadest definition , the GI tract includes all structures between the mouth and the anus .	The gastrointestinal system starts at the lips and ends at the anus .
In humans , the small intestine is further subdivided into the duodenum , jejunum and ileum while the large intestine is subdivided into the cecum and colon .	For example the pancreas , thyroid , liver , and parathyroids are also endocrine glands that make hormones like insulin .
He had a stroke in his thirties , heart surgery and the removal of a tumor in his forties , and suffered two successive heart attacks which left him very frail .	He suffered two heart attack and had surgery to remove an intestinal tumor .
Under crowded conditions , the population experiences density-dependent forces of natural selection , called K-selection .	`` Natural capital '' is an example of one theory combining both .
Substantia grisea ) is a major component of the central nervous system , consisting of neuronal cell bodies , neuropil ( dendrites and myelinated as well as unmyelinated axons ) , glial cells ( astroglia and oligodendrocytes ) and capillaries .	It is composed of neurons ( that is , the cells usually called ` brain cells ' ) and glial cells .
In early 2003 Gibson survived a heart attack , but died on September 28 , 2003 , at the age of 76 from complications following respiratory and bladder infections .	On September 28 , 2003 , at the age of 76 , Gibson died in East Orange , New Jersey due to infections .
Initially , Graham intended to become a chaplain in the armed forces but , shortly after applying for a commission , contracted mumps .	He wished to be a chaplain in the armed forces , but after trying to get in , he came down with mumps , so he had to not enlist .
Plague doctors wore these protective costumes in accordance with their agreements when they attended their plague patients .	He wears a special plague doctor 's mask .
The purpose of the mask was to keep away bad smells , which were thought to be the principal cause of the disease in the miasma theory of infection , before it was disproved by germ theory .	The mask was supposed to keep away bad smells .
This complex is , at least in Portugal , known as Malta fever .	The disease was first called `` Malta fever . ''
Co-trimoxazole and rifampin are both safe drugs to use in treatment of pregnant women who have brucellosis .	Dr. David Bruce was the first person to discover the bacteria that caused brucellosis .
Under the name `` Malta fever '' , the disease now called brucellosis first came to the attention of British medical officers in the 1850s in Malta during the Crimean War .	British doctors in the military first discovered it in Malta during the Crimean War ( 1850s ) .
The first state-federal cooperative efforts towards eradication of brucellosis caused by Brucella abortus in the U.S. began in 1934 .	Brucellosis is a disease that is caused by bacteria in the Brucella genus .
Although brucellosis can take a chronic form , with periods of illness alternating with periods of no symptoms , persistent illness lasting longer than two months may be due to a previously unsuspected underlying disease or a complication of the brucellosis .	Brucellosis is a zoonosis , a disease that is spread from animals to humans .
In the autumn of 1918 Parry contracted Spanish flu during the global pandemic and died at Knightscroft , Rustington , West Sussex , aged 70 .	He died of influenza in Rustington , Sussex .
Gene therapy is the use of DNA as a pharmaceutical agent to treat disease .	A complete sequence analysis of an individual 's DNA is possible , and costs about $ 5,000 US dollars .
When used to screen for a specific genetic disease or for risk of getting a disease , its main advantage is that it avoids selective pregnancy termination as the method makes it highly likely that the baby will be free of the disease under consideration .	The technique is as follows .
The techniques established by the field of gene therapy could potentially be used not to treat to disease , but to create `` designer babies '' .	The term designer baby is used sometimes , but its meaning is not clear or simple .
Bathing is the washing of the body with a fluid , usually water or an aqueous solution , or the immersion of the body in water .	Bathing is putting the body into a fluid , most often water , or a solution with water .
Hench and his wife had four children , two daughters and two sons .	After several years of work , Hench and Kendall decided to use one of these steroids on patients with rheumatoid arthritis .
Hench 's Nobel Lecture was directly related to the research he was honored for , and titled `` The Reversibility of Certain Rheumatic and Non-Rheumatic Conditions by the Use of Cortisone Or of the Pituitary Adrenocorticotropic Hormone '' .	They won it for finding the hormone cortisone and its use for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis . ''
Some people question if SMAs actually provide significant advantages in terms of risk\/return over more typical portfolios .	Registered Rep , an investment trade magazine , said that SMAs also can provide tax advantages that may not be available with mutual funds and other investments .
The case , which prompted Carlin to refer to the words for a time as `` the Milwaukee Seven , '' was dismissed in December of that year ; the judge declared that the language was indecent but Carlin had the freedom to say it as long as he caused no disturbance .	Carlin had a history of heart problems and had suffered several heart attacks .
In 1356 , after the plague had passed and England was able to recover financially , Edward 's son and namesake , the Prince of Wales , known as the Black Prince , invaded France from Gascony , winning a great victory in the Battle of Poitiers .	Then Edward , the Black Prince won the Battle of Poitiers for England .
One health risk associated with drinking water ( with ) 10 ppm nitrate ) is the development of methemoglobinemia and has been found to cause blue baby syndrome .	High nitrate levels in drinking water is harmful for babies and can cause blue-baby syndrome .
Sleep paralysis is just as common for males as it is for females , however , different age groups have been found to be more susceptible to developing isolated sleep paralysis .	Many people try to induce sleep paralysis , to have an Out of Body Experience .
Twin studies have shown that if one twin of a monozygotic pair experiences sleep paralysis that other twin is very likely to experience it as well .	Studies suggest that many people get sleep paralysis at least once in their lives .
Sleep paralysis is mainly diagnosed by ruling out other potential sleep disorders that could account for the feelings of paralysis .	Little is known about the physiology of sleep paralysis .
Sleep paralysis is a phenomenon in which people , either when falling asleep or wakening , temporarily experience an inability to move .	People suffering form Sleep paralysis wake up and find that they are unable to move - that is that this paralysis has n't stopped .
This study supports the observation that disturbance of regular sleeping patterns can instigate an episode of sleep paralysis , because fragmentation of REM sleep commonly occurs when sleep patterns are disrupted and has now been seen in combination with sleep paralysis .	If you suffer from sleep paralysis , you can change it into an enjoyable experience .
The characteristic fragmentation of REM sleep , hypnopompic , and hypnagogic hallucinations have a heritable component in other parasomnias , which lends credence to the idea that sleep paralysis is also genetic .	Some report that various factors make paralysis and hallucinations happen more .
Genetically modified organisms are an increasing component of agriculture , although they are banned in several countries .	Some companies have been searching for new plants in poor countries , and genetically modify these plants to improve them .
The neurotransmitters are kept within small sacs called vesicles , and are released into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis .	Chemicals are released into the synaptic cleft from the pre-synaptic terminal .
They allow the nervous system to connect to and control other systems of the body .	Especially in the central nervous system and the brain .
Large chemical synapses ( e.g. the neuromuscular junction ) , on the other hand , have a synaptic release probability of 1 .	Chemical Synapses are made up of three parts .
Within the presynaptic nerve terminal , vesicles containing neurotransmitter are localized near the synaptic membrane .	Neurotransmitters pass through the synaptic cleft and are absorbed by the post-synaptic membrane .
They report the birth of an androgyne , and prescribe a long list of rituals and offerings to the gods .	This quote speaks about the birth of a hermaphrodite , and ceremonies for sacrificing to idols .
Discrimination faced by those who have or are perceived to have a mental disorder is sometimes called mentalism rather than ableism .	Ableism takes many forms around the world .
The legal definition of disability is : `` A person ( P ) has a disability if P has a physical or mental impairment , and the impairment has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities '' .	50 % of disabled people who do n't have a job want to have a job , but can not find a job .
One suggested cause of this injury is that he damaged his finger by the use of a mechanical device designed to strengthen the weakest fingers , a device which held back one finger while he exercised the others .	It has often been said that he hurt his hands because he made something to stretch his fingers , but people now think it was more likely due to mercury poisoning because doctors had used mercury to try to cure his syphilis .
In 1981 , Richard attempted a comeback with the Astros , but this failed because the stroke had slowed down his reaction time and weakened his depth perception .	The next year , Richard tried to make a comeback into baseball , but the stroke had slowed down his reaction time and vision .
Hyde set a precedent of reciting the Presidential Declaration of Office in Irish ( though the president is technically permitted to choose English ) .	Hyde said the Presidential oath of office in Irish .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .	Cellular respiration takes in food and uses it to create ATP , a chemical which the cell uses for energy .
In aerobic conditions , the process converts one molecule of glucose into two molecules of pyruvate ( pyruvic acid ) , generating energy in the form of two net molecules of ATP .	The steps of cellular respiration are : In glycolysis , glucose in the cytoplasm is broken into two molecules of pyruvate .
To help express prostatic secretions that may contain WBCs and bacteria , prostate massage is sometimes used .	If no fluid is recovered after this prostatic massage , a post massage urine should also contain any prostatic bacteria .
Prostatitis is classified into acute , chronic , asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis , and chronic pelvic pain syndrome .	In chronic prostatitis\/chronic pelvic pain syndrome ( CP\/CPPS ) there is pelvic pain of unknown cause , lasting longer than 6 months , as the key symptom .
The conditions are distinguished by the different presentation of pain , white blood cells ( WBCs ) in the urine , duration of symptoms and bacteria cultured from the urine .	In the inflammatory form , urine , semen , and other fluids from the prostate contain pus cells ( dead white blood cells or WBCs ) , whereas in the non-inflammatory form no pus cells are present .
In 1999 , the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ( NIDDK ) devised a new classification system .	To try to remedy this , the NIH devised a new classification system in 1999 .
Clinically infected people have helminth infection and rarely blindness .	T. canis can cause parasitic worm infection and rarely blindness in humans .
At the time of his death from viral pneumonia at age 89 , Lautenberg was the oldest serving senator and last remaining World War II veteran in the Senate .	At age 89 , Lautenberg was the oldest senator and the last serving veteran of World War II to become a senator ( after the death of Daniel Inouye and Ted Stevens .
Paediatricians handle most complaints and diseases in children that do not require surgery , and there are several subspecialties ( formally or informally ) in paediatrics that mimic the organ-based specialties in adults .	`` Surgery '' refers to the practice of operative medicine , and most subspecialties in this area require preliminary training in `` General Surgery . ''
In October 1992 , a scientific report was published of successfully transplanting melanocytes to vitiligo affected areas , effectively repigmenting the region .	Breakthrough discovery in 2004 allowed for the transplant of melanocytes to vitiligo affected areas , repigmenting the region .
In mild cases , vitiligo patches can be hidden with makeup or other cosmetic camouflage solutions .	Makeup or cosmetics can cover up the parts of the skin with vitiligo .
Vitiligo \/ ˌvɪtɨˈlaɪɡoʊ \/ is a condition that causes depigmentation of parts of the skin .	Vitiligo is a long lasting skin disease that causes the losing of color from the skin .
If the affected person is pale-skinned , the patches can be made less visible by avoiding any tanning of unaffected skin .	Vitiligo may also be caused by stress that affects the immune system , leading the body to react and start eliminating skin pigment .
The cause of vitiligo is unknown , but research suggests that it may arise from autoimmune , genetic , oxidative stress , neural , or viral causes .	The exact cause of vitiligo is complex and not fully understood .
Old age increases risk of a heart attack .	As time passes , the risk of damage to the heart muscle increases .
In many cases , in some estimates as high as 64 % , the person does not have chest pain or other symptoms .	Most people having a heart attack experience chest pain .
However , an MI may lead to heart failure .	Most cases of coronary heart disease , which leads to heart attacks are a result of persons behaviors and lifestyle .
These are called `` silent '' myocardial infarctions .	When a person starts experiencing symptoms of a myocardial infarction , they should seek emergency assistance as soon as they can .
Chest pain is the most common symptom of acute MI and is often described as a sensation of tightness , pressure , or squeezing .	The most common symptom is strong pains in the chest .
Ischemic heart disease , which includes MI , angina , and heart failure when it happens after MI , was the leading cause of death for both men and women worldwide in 2011 .	Heart attacks most often happens as a result of coronary heart disease .
The phrase `` heart attack '' is often used non-specifically to refer to a myocardial infarction and to sudden cardiac death .	An acute myocardial infarction , also known as a heart attack , is when a blood vessel within the heart suddenly becomes blocked , usually by a blood clot , which stops the flow of oxygenated-blood to that part of the heart .
Shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) occurs when the damage to the heart limits the output of the left ventricle , causing left ventricular failure and consequent pulmonary edema .	Some women feel tired , do not sleep properly , and experience shortness of breath for up to a month before they have a heart attack .
Two doctors examined Gacy over a period of 17 days and concluded he had antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) , was unlikely to benefit from medical treatment , and his behavior pattern was likely to bring him into repeated conflict with society .	In 1968 , Gacy was diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder .
The term `` ossicle '' literally means `` tiny bone '' and , though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body , it typically refers the malleus , the incus , and the stapes of the middle ear .	They may be called ear bones or auditory ossicles .
Its legality can depend on specific conditions , such as incest , rape , fetal defects , a high risk of disability , socioeconomic factors or the mother 's health being at risk .	While abortion is illegal in many countries , there are often exceptions that permit it in cases such as incest , rape , severe fetal defects or the mother 's health being at risk .
In 2003 , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) reported that 26 % of abortions in the United States were known to have been obtained at less than 6 weeks ' gestation , 18 % at 7 weeks , 15 % at 8 weeks , 18 % at 9 through 10 weeks , 9.7 % at 11 through 12 weeks , 6.2 % at 13 through 15 weeks , 4.1 % at 16 through 20 weeks and 1.4 % at more than 21 weeks .	The remaining 1.4 % were done in week 21 or later .
The most common cause of spontaneous abortion during the first trimester is chromosomal abnormalities of the embryo or fetus , accounting for at least 50 % of sampled early pregnancy losses .	These things may lead to the death of the embryo or fetus .
For example , the 1996 legalization of abortion in South Africa had an immediate positive impact on the frequency of abortion-related complications , with abortion-related deaths dropping by more than 90 % .	This is called a missed abortion .
Dilation and curettage ( D&C ) , the second most common method of surgical abortion , is a standard gynecological procedure performed for a variety of reasons , including examination of the uterine lining for possible malignancy , investigation of abnormal bleeding , and abortion .	Usually , no treatment is needed for a miscarriage .
Dilation and evacuation ( D&E ) consists of opening the cervix of the uterus and emptying it using surgical instruments and suction .	If another tool , called a curette , has to be used to scrape out tissue that is still inside the uterus , then this form of abortion is sometimes called a `` dilation and curettage '' ( or `` D&C '' ) .
An abortion is medically referred to as a therapeutic abortion when it is performed to save the life of the pregnant woman ; prevent harm to the woman 's physical or mental health ; terminate a pregnancy where indications are that the child will have a significantly increased chance of premature morbidity or mortality or be otherwise disabled ; or to selectively reduce the number of fetuses to lessen health risks associated with multiple pregnancy .	In some cases finishing the pregnancy might be very dangerous for the pregnant woman .
Although data are imprecise , it is estimated that approximately 20 million unsafe abortions are performed annually , with 97 % taking place in developing countries .	A similar poll in April 2009 surveyed people in the United States about abortion ; 18 % said that abortion should be `` legal in all cases '' , 28 % said that abortion should be `` legal in most cases '' , 28 % said abortion should be `` illegal in most cases '' and 16 % said abortion should be `` illegal in all cases '' .
Reported methods of unsafe , self-induced abortion include misuse of misoprostol , and insertion of non-surgical implements such as knitting needles and clothes hangers into the uterus .	With the second type of abortion - called `` surgical abortion '' or `` in-office abortion '' - a doctor does a procedure that removes an embryo or fetus from the woman 's uterus .
This has a tendency to lead to severe complications , such as incomplete abortion , sepsis , hemorrhage , and damage to internal organs .	Some women have bad pains in their low abdomen when they have a miscarriage .
In men fewer than 1\/3 of those infected notice the first signs of LGV .	Every year , a few hundred cases of LGV are diagnosed in the United States .
Chlamydia trachomatis is the bacterium responsible for LGV .	Lymphogranuloma venereum ( LGV ) is a chronic ( long-term ) infection of the lymphatic system caused by three different types of the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis .
A majority of these patients are HIV co-infected .	However , the actual number of infections is unknown .
Priapus is a Greek god of fertility whose symbol was an exaggerated phallus .	Hermes was a phallic god , associated with fertility , luck , roads and borders .
The boy was later challenged with variolous material and again showed no sign of infection .	Later , he injected the boy with a mild form of smallpox and he showed no sign of infection .
In 1734 , it was hit by the plague .	As if that were n't enough for the people of Iaşi , the plague spread throughout the city in 1734 .
Measles caused many deaths .	Smallpox probably caused in the highest death toll for Native Americans .
By contrast , `` Old World '' diseases had a devastating effect on Native American populations , who had no natural immunity to the new diseases .	This partly led to the horrible effects of Old World diseases on Native American tribes .
New genetic evidence supports the theory that Christopher Columbus brought syphilis to Europe from the New World According to the study , genetic analysis of the syphilis family tree reveals that its closest relative was a South American disease that causes yaws , an infection caused by a sub-species of the same bacteria .	It also spread different diseases .
`` Ringworm '' is not a worm at all , but a skin fungus .	Some other worms are Tapeworm and Ringworm .
Desquamation of skin epithelium also helps remove bacteria and other infectious agents that have adhered to the epithelial surfaces .	Old skin cells drop off , and this helps remove bacteria that have stuck to the skin .
Miklós Kertész , born in Szécsény , Hungary into a large Jewish family , was the director of a leather-works who died of appendicitis in 1938 .	When his father died of appendicitis in 1938 , his mother had to go out to work to earn money .
Admissions are restricted to the four types of disabled students : visually impaired , hearing impaired , mobility impaired and mentally impaired , as defined by the Disability Act ( 1995 ) of the Government of India .	The permission to enter into the university is limited to only four types of disabled students - those who are blind , or have difficulty in hearing , having difficulty in walking or having some mental illness , as defined in the Disability Act ( 1995 ) of the Government of India .
Batman 's health quickly declined after 1835 as syphilis had disfigured and crippled him , and he became estranged from his wife , convict Elizabeth Callaghan .	Batman became very unhealthy after 1835 , and he separated from his wife , convict Elizabeth Callaghan .
A number of other disorders , for example bipolar disorder and some sleep disorders , are associated with irregular or pathological functioning of circadian rhythms .	Some people have circadian rhythm sleep disorders which cause them to sleep much too early ( Advanced sleep-phase syndrome , ASPS ) , much too late ( Delayed sleep-phase syndrome , DSPS ) or in several bouts throughout the day and night ( Irregular sleep-wake disorder ) .
In some people , the disease proceeds to a critical phase as fever resolves .	In some people , the disease goes into a critical phase after the high fever is gone .
Dengue fever virus ( DENV ) is an RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae ; genus Flavivirus .	There are four different types of the dengue virus .
Dengue can also be transmitted via infected blood products and through organ donation .	Dengue can also be spread through infected blood products and through organ donation .
A female mosquito that takes a blood meal from a person infected with dengue fever , during the initial 2-10 day febrile period , becomes itself infected with the virus in the cells lining its gut .	If a female mosquito that bites an infected person , the mosquito may get the dengue virus .
Children often experience symptoms similar to those of the common cold and gastroenteritis ( vomiting and diarrhea ) and have a greater risk of severe complications , though initial symptoms are generally mild but include high fever .	Often , when children have dengue fever , their symptoms are the same as the common cold or gastroenteritis ( or stomach flu ; for example , vomiting and diarrhea ) .
A rash occurs in 50-80 % of those with symptoms in the first or second day of symptoms as flushed skin , or later in the course of illness ( days 4-7 ) , as a measles-like rash .	Later in the illness ( on days 4 to 7 ) , the rash can look like measles .
The number of cases of dengue fever has increased dramatically since the 1960s , with between 50 and 528 million people infected yearly .	Since the 1960s , many more people have been getting dengue fever .
These laboratory tests are only of diagnostic value during the acute phase of the illness with the exception of serology .	Except for antibody tests , these laboratory tests can only help diagnose dengue fever during the acute ( beginning ) stage of the illness .
This replaces the 1997 WHO classification , which needed to be simplified as it had been found to be too restrictive , though the older classification is still widely used including by the World Health Organization 's Regional Office for South-East Asia as of 2011 .	Although the dengue classification was officially changed , the older classification often is still used .
In countries such as Singapore , where dengue is endemic , the risk is estimated to be between 1.6 and 6 per 10,000 transfusions .	In these countries , between 1.6 and 6 blood transfusions out of every 10,000 spread dengue .
The course of infection is divided into three phases : febrile , critical , and recovery .	Dengue fever happens in three stages : febrile , critical , and recovery .
Shock ( dengue shock syndrome ) and hemorrhage ( dengue hemorrhagic fever ) occur in less than 5 % of all cases of dengue , however those who have previously been infected with other serotypes of dengue virus ( `` secondary infection '' ) are at an increased risk .	This can happen when the dengue virus causes an infection in the brain .
The alternative name for dengue , `` breakbone fever '' , comes from the associated muscle and joint pains .	The disease 's nickname , `` break-bone fever '' describes how severe this pain can be .
Treatment of acute dengue is supportive , using either oral or intravenous rehydration for mild or moderate disease , and intravenous fluids and blood transfusion for more severe cases .	If the person has a more severe case , he may need intravenous fluids ( fluids given into a vein , using a needle and tubing ) , or blood transfusions ( being given blood from another person ) .
Grades III and IV are referred to as `` dengue shock syndrome '' .	In a few people , dengue fever can turn into one of two forms that are life-threatening .
Some serotypes of dengue virus appear to have mechanisms to slow down this process .	Symptoms appear between 3 and 14 days after a person is exposed to the dengue virus .
The diagnosis of dengue fever may be confirmed by microbiological laboratory testing .	That word may have been used to describe a person suffering from the bone pain of dengue fever ; that pain would make the person walk carefully .
Severe disease is more common in babies and young children , and in contrast to many other infections it is more common in children that are relatively well nourished .	In some countries , like Singapore , dengue is common .
Most are transmitted by arthropods ( mosquitoes or ticks ) , and are therefore also referred to as arboviruses ( arthropod-borne viruses ) .	Mosquitoes transmit ( or spread ) the dengue virus .
The genetic variation in dengue viruses is region specific , suggestive that establishment into new territories is relatively infrequent , despite dengue emerging in new regions in recent decades .	There is no vaccine that works to keep people from getting the dengue virus .
The virus has five different types ; infection with one type usually gives lifelong immunity to that type , but only short-term immunity to the others .	If a person has had another type of dengue before ( `` secondary infection '' ) , they are more likely to have these serious problems .
Dengue is transmitted by several species of mosquito within the genus Aedes , principally A. aegypti .	The Aedes aegypti mosquito is the most likely to spread dengue .
After a primary infection IgG reaches peak levels in the blood after 14-21 days .	The body makes antibodies which specifically fight the dengue virus after 5 to 7 days .
Other members of the same genus include yellow fever virus , West Nile virus , St. Louis encephalitis virus , Japanese encephalitis virus , tick-borne encephalitis virus , Kyasanur forest disease virus , and Omsk hemorrhagic fever virus .	The dengue virus can also be spread from mother to child during pregnancy or when the child is born .
An infection can be acquired via a single bite .	A single bite can infect a person .
Detection of NS1 during the febrile phase of a primary infection may be greater than 90 % however is only 60-80 % in subsequent infections .	In the febrile stage , a person usually has a high fever .
Others have more severe illness ( 5 % ) , and in a small proportion it is life-threatening .	In a small number of these people , the disease is life-threatening .
Once inside the skin , dengue virus binds to Langerhans cells ( a population of dendritic cells in the skin that identifies pathogens ) .	One test ( virus isolation ) isolates ( or separates out ) the dengue virus in cultures ( or samples ) of cells .
Chronic hepatitis B may eventually cause cirrhosis and liver cancer-a disease with poor response to all but a few current therapies .	Another problem with hepatitis B is that it can cause cancer of the liver .
The life cycle of hepatitis B virus is complex .	If people have those signs , treatment for hepatitis B can prevent the liver damage caused by the virus .
The hepatitis B virus is 50 to 100 times more infectious than HIV .	Infection with hepatitis B can be prevented by vaccination , where an injection is given which makes the body immune to the virus .
The acute illness causes liver inflammation , vomiting , jaundice , and , rarely , death .	Usually they have few or no symptoms .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is a member of the hepadnavirus family .	It is caused by a virus .
Seidl 's sudden death in 1898 from food poisoning at the age of 47 was widely mourned .	Many people were sad when Seidl suddenly died in 1898 from food poisoning at the age of 47 .
Newer MAOIs such as selegiline ( typically used in the treatment of Parkinson 's disease ) and the reversible MAOI moclobemide provide a safer alternative and are now sometimes used as first-line therapy .	Some newer drugs such as selegiline and moclobemide have proven to be safer than the older MAOIs and are prescribed by physicians in the first instance .
MAO-A preferentially deaminates serotonin , melatonin , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .	MAO-A breaks down melatonin , serotonin , epinephrine and norepinephrine .
They are also used in the treatment of Parkinson 's Disease and several other disorders .	MAO-B inhibitors are used to treat Parkinson 's disease .
MAOIs have been found to be effective in the treatment of panic disorder with agoraphobia , social phobia , atypical depression or mixed anxiety and depression , bulimia , and post-traumatic stress disorder , as well as borderline personality disorder .	They are good at treating atypical depression , Parkinson 's disease , anxiety disorders , social phobia and have also shown to help people to stop smoking tobacco .
MAOIs act by inhibiting the activity of monoamine oxidase , thus preventing the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters and thereby increasing their availability .	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors work by stopping the action of an enzyme called monoamine oxidase .
Antidepressants including MAOIs have some dependence-producing effects , the most notable one being a withdrawal syndrome , which may be severe especially if MAOIs are discontinued abruptly or over-rapidly .	Like all drugs , MAOIs and RIMAs can have effects that are not intended and are not part of the treatment that the drugs provide .
Neurons are the core components of the nervous system , which includes the brain , and spinal cord of the central nervous system ( CNS ) , and the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) .	Neurons are the basic units of the nervous system and its most important part is the brain .
Otto Plath died on November 5 , 1940 , a week and a half after Plath 's eighth birthday , of complications following the amputation of a foot due to untreated diabetes .	In 1940 , Otto Plath died .
She spent the next six months in psychiatric care , receiving more electric and insulin shock treatment under the care of Dr. Ruth Beuscher .	She was given a treatment called electric shock therapy .
Following electroconvulsive therapy for depression , Plath made her first medically documented suicide attempt in late August 1953 by crawling under her house and taking her mother 's sleeping pills .	After she took the pills , she crawled underneath her house , but she was found and taken to hospital .
Although enzymes can consist of hundreds of amino acids , it is usually only a small fraction of the residues that come in contact with the substrate , and an even smaller fraction-three to four residues on average-that are directly involved in catalysis .	The amino acids are then used in metabolism to make the enzymes and structures the body needs .
Mozart 's last year was , until his final illness struck , a time of great productivity-and by some accounts , one of personal recovery .	There are several stories about Mozart 's last illness and death , and it is not easy to be sure what happened .
These individuals have a great resistance to infection and have a greater chance of surviving outbreaks .	This is because the homozygote for sickle cell has less chance of surviving to leave children , and if they do survive , they will have many health problems .
In more general terms , overdominance is a condition in genetics where the phenotype of the heterozygote lies outside of the phenotypical range of both homozygote parents , and heterozygous individuals have a higher fitness than homozygous individuals .	There , the heterozygote has the advantage in fitness .
A well-established case of heterozygote advantage is that of the gene involved in sickle cell anemia .	Three genotypes are possible in a population : Hb + Hb + producing a normal phenotype ; Hb + Hbs the heterozygote ; and HbsHbs homozygous for sickle cell anemia .
Cytokines are produced by broad range of cells , including immune cells like macrophages , B lymphocytes , T lymphocytes and mast cells , as well as endothelial cells , fibroblasts , and various stromal cells ; a given cytokine may be produced by more than one type of cell .	The cytokines are a large family of polypeptide regulators that are produced throughout the body by many groups of cells .
They are important in health and disease , specifically in host responses to infection , immune responses , inflammation , trauma , sepsis , cancer , and reproduction .	They help to control the immune system and fight disease .
Fitzgerald had died of a heart attack .	F. Scott Fitzgerald then went to the St. Paul Academy , but was thrown out of the school when he was aged 16 for not working hard enough .
Fitzgerald began working on his fourth novel during the late 1920s but was sidetracked by financial difficulties that necessitated his writing commercial short stories , and by the schizophrenia that struck Zelda in 1930 .	In the late 1920s , Fitzgerald started working on a fourth novel , but problems arose when Zelda 's mental health got worse .
On August 29 , 2011 Edwards died at his home , of congestive heart failure , at approx .	He died on August 29 , 2011 , at the age of 96 years .
Most phobias are classified into three categories and , according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , Fourth Edition ( DSM-IV ) , such phobias are considered to be sub-types of anxiety disorder .	In psychology , phobia is considered an anxiety disorder .
The term heart failure is sometimes incorrectly used for myocardial infarction ( which may cause heart failure , but is not heart failure in itself ) or for cardiac arrest ( in which blood flow effectively stops altogether ) .	Heart failure is different from cardiac arrest , because the heart is still working .
Heart failure ( HF ) , often called congestive heart failure ( CHF ) or congestive cardiac failure ( CCF ) , occurs when the heart is unable to provide sufficient pump action to maintain blood flow to meet the needs of the body .	Heart failure is when the heart can not pump blood well .
Additionally , the most common cause of right-sided heart failure is left-sided heart failure .	There are many reasons why someone can get heart failure , but most often heart attacks , high blood pressure or problems with the heart valves .
Heart failure can cause a number of symptoms including shortness of breath , leg swelling , and exercise intolerance .	Someone with heart failure can have shortness of breath , difficulty lying flat , waking up breathless at night , swelling of the legs , and needing to urinate often during the night .
Fluid overload is a common problem for people with heart failure , but is not synonymous with it .	Some people with heart failure are treated with an artificial pacemaker that makes the heart work better .
There are various algorithms for the diagnosis of heart failure .	A doctor makes a diagnosis of heart failure by asking about the symptoms above , examining the heart , blood vessels , lungs , liver ( for swelling ) and legs ( for swelling or edema ) .
The pain and rash most commonly occurs on the torso , but can appear on the face , eyes or other parts of the body .	This rash may be on the trunk or face .
This newly infected individual may then develop chickenpox , but will not immediately develop shingles .	The same virus that causes chickenpox also causes shingles .
In the skin , the virus causes local inflammation and blistering .	After a few days , the disease causes a blistering rash .
In a few patients , symptoms may include conjunctivitis , keratitis , uveitis , and optic nerve palsies that can sometimes cause chronic ocular inflammation , loss of vision , and debilitating pain .	Its symptoms include pain and a blistering rash that occurs along the nerves that contain dormant virus .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends shingle vaccine for use in people 60 years old and older to prevent shingles , but it is not recommended to treat active shingles or post-herpetic neuralgia ( pain after the rash is gone ) once it develops .	Most people who get shingles are old .
Over a lifetime , a large fraction of people develop herpes zoster , though usually only once ; a 1965 16-year British study proposed that , of those individuals living to age 85 , 50 % would likely have had at least one attack , and 1 % had at least two attacks .	Most people who have shingles have only one attack of the disease in their lifetime .
The causative agent for herpes zoster is the varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) - a double-stranded DNA virus related to the Herpes simplex virus .	However , it is thought that contact with a shingles patient may trigger a person 's own dormant chickenpox virus to become shingles .
Herpes zoster in children is often painless , but older people are more likely to get zoster as they age , and the disease tends to be more severe .	If people have had chickenpox , they can not get chickenpox from someone else again .
Apart from the rash , most symptoms can occur also in other conditions .	The rash stays in one region of the body .
A person is not infectious before blisters appear , or during postherpetic neuralgia ( pain after the rash is gone ) .	The symptoms are pain and a rash with blisters .
As with chickenpox and\/or other forms of herpes , direct contact with an active rash can spread VZV to a person who has no immunity to the virus .	However , you can catch chicken pox through direct contact with someone who has shingles , by touching the area of the rash .
For first-trimester and early second-trimester abortions , the pregnancy may be ended by vacuum aspiration alone .	This is called a `` vacuum aspiration '' .
A cannula is passed into the uterus .	The doctor will then put a cannula ( a medical tube ) into the uterus , through the vagina .
Dilation and evacuation ( also sometimes called dilation and extraction ) literally refers to the dilation of the cervix and surgical evacuation of the contents of the uterus .	At this point , a full dilation and extraction is needed .
Enlarging the opening of the cervix enables surgical instruments such as a curette or forceps to be inserted into the uterus .	The cervix needs to be made larger so that medical tools , like forceps ( surgical tongs ) or a curette ( a tool that is used to scrape away the lining of the uterus ) can be put into the cervix .
Lastly , the vacuum is used to ensure no fetal tissue remains in the uterus ( such tissue can cause serious infections in the woman ) .	If tissue is left behind in a woman 's uterus after a miscarriage , she can get an infection .
It is a method of abortion as well as a therapeutic procedure used after miscarriage to prevent infection by ensuring that the uterus is fully evacuated .	This procedure also may be used after a woman has a miscarriage , to make sure that the uterus is emptied out completely .
The condition arose from a previously unrecognised congenital heart problem and Brown was admitted to Auckland Hospital .	He had a congenital heart problem that had not been diagnosed before .
Beethoven , on the advice of his doctor , lived in the small Austrian town of Heiligenstadt , just outside Vienna , from April to October 1802 in an attempt to come to terms with his condition .	In 1802 , he stayed for a time in Heiligenstadt which is now a suburb of Vienna but at that time it was outside the city .
The illness and death of his brother Carl from tuberculosis may also have played a role .	Beethoven had many problems when his brother Caspar Carl died , leaving a 9-year-old son .
The patient 's condition is grave . ''	His training was old-school .
In the context of bipolar disorder , a mixed state is a condition during which symptoms of both mania and depression occur at the same time .	Mixed episode occurs when both mania and depression are present simultaneously .
Bipolar spectrum disorders include the following four disorders : bipolar I disorder , bipolar II disorder , cyclothymic disorder , and bipolar disorder not otherwise specified .	Every person is different , so it is important to remember that these things do not happen to all people with bipolar disorder .
Bipolar II disorder : No manic episodes , but one or more hypomanic episodes and one or more major depressive episode .	There are a few things that a lot of people start to believe when they have manic episodes .
Currently , manic depressive illness is usually referred to as bipolar disorder or simply bipolar .	When a person with bipolar disorder is manic , they might not think as hard about the choices that they make , and sometimes may do things like give things to people , or spend lots of money .
At more extreme levels , a person in a manic state can experience psychosis , or a break with reality , a state in which thinking is affected along with mood .	The other extreme is a low-energy state that is depression .
He then fell in to a coma .	He then fell in to a ( kayfabe ) coma .
Paracetamol hepatotoxicity is , by far , the most common cause of acute liver failure in both the United States and the United Kingdom .	In Great Britain and the United States Paracetamol is the main reason for acute liver failure .
However , paracetamol does not help reduce inflammation , while aspirin does .	Paracetamol ( or acetaminophen ) is a common analgesic , a drug that is used to relieve pain .
The main effect of toxicity in dogs is liver damage , GI ulceration has been reported .	A dose of 150 milligrams for every kilogram of the person 's weight ( about 10 grams for most adults ) will lead to permanent liver damage , and may cause the liver to fail .
While generally safe for use at recommended doses ( 1,000 mg per single dose and up to 4,000 mg per day for adults ) , even small overdoses can be fatal .	It is used in many drugs that treat the flu and colds .
SF 6 is used to provide a tamponade or plug of a retinal hole in retinal detachment repair operations in the form of a gas bubble .	This is the opposite of breathing in helium gas .
Symptoms include fever , cough , sore throat , body aches , headache , chills and fatigue .	Symptoms include vomiting , nausea , runny nose , ( loss of appetite ) , lethargy ( feeling tired ) , chills , fever , body aches , sore throat , coughing , diarrhea , and stomach ache .
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , in humans the symptoms of the 2009 `` swine flu '' H1N1 virus are similar to those of influenza and of influenza-like illness in general .	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , a United States government agency , reports that the symptoms and transmission of the swine flu from human to human is much like seasonal flu .
The only pathogen identified was an H1N1 strain of swine influenza virus .	The new strain of swine influenza A ( H1N1 ) is currently listed by the United States and World Health Organization as a Stage 5 pandemic virus .
This makes pigs a host where influenza viruses might exchange genes , producing new and dangerous strains .	Specialists also think that this might lead to new variations of the influenza virus .
If transmission does cause human flu , it is called zoonotic swine flu .	This has made Swine influenza a bigger problem , mainly because traditional vaccines against influenza do not always work against Swine influenza .
The virus was able to spread between people , since one to three health care personnel who had cared for the pregnant woman developed mild , influenza-like illnesses , and antibody tests suggested they had been infected with swine flu , but there was no community outbreak .	Laboratory tests showed , however , that he had contracted swine flu .
Direct transmission of a swine flu virus from pigs to humans is occasionally possible ( called zoonotic swine flu ) .	Dr. Anne Schuchat , interim Deputy Director for CDC Science and Public Health , said that the American cases were found to be made up of genetic elements from four different flu viruses - North American swine influenza , North American avian influenza ( bird flu ) , human influenza , and swine influenza virus typically found in Asia and Europe - `` an unusually mongrelised mix of genetic sequences . ''
In pigs , influenza infection produces fever , lethargy , sneezing , coughing , difficulty breathing and decreased appetite .	Usually , the symptoms are fever , lethargy ( feeling tired ) , lack of appetite and coughing .
Also , avoiding touching one 's eyes , nose or mouth with one 's hands helps to prevent the flu .	Another person then might touch the same thing with the virus on it and then touch their own nose or mouth .
The 1918 flu pandemic in humans was associated with H1N1 and influenza appearing in pigs ; this may reflect a zoonosis either from swine to humans , or from humans to swine .	The new strain of swine influenza A is called H1N1 is responsible for the swine flu outbreak in 2009 in humans .
Two weeks after his death , health officials announced the cause of death was a new strain of swine flu .	The current strain of swine flu can adapt to humans and spread more efficiently than previously known swine H1N1 strains .
This outbreak confirmed that pigs can serve as a crucible where novel influenza viruses emerge as a result of the reassortment of genes from different strains .	Pigs have been shown to act as a potential `` mixing vessel '' in which reassortment can occur between flu viruses of several species .
Scientists found this virus had originated in pigs as a recombinant form of flu strains from birds and humans .	Viruses that were built like this had not been found in humans or pigs before .
These are the proteins that determine the subtype of influenza virus ( A\/H1N1 , for example ) .	The director of CDC 's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases said that the United States ' cases were found to be made up of genetic elements from four different flu viruses-North American swine influenza , North American avian influenza , human influenza A virus subtype H1N1 , and swine influenza virus typically found in Asia and Europe .
Influenza B has not been reported in pigs .	It is very difficult to prevent the flu virus .
Pigs are unusual as they can be infected with influenza strains that usually infect three different species : pigs , birds and humans .	Normally , it only infects people who have been in close contact with pigs .
Standard commercial swine flu vaccines are effective in controlling the infection when the virus strains match enough to have significant cross-protection , and custom ( autogenous ) vaccines made from the specific viruses isolated are created and used in the more difficult cases .	In the cases more difficult to treat , special vaccines are produced .
People who work with poultry and swine , especially those with intense exposures , are at increased risk of zoonotic infection with influenza virus endemic in these animals , and constitute a population of human hosts in which zoonosis and reassortment can co-occur .	This new strain appears to be a result of reassortment of human influenza and swine influenza viruses , presumably due to superinfection in an individual human .
Symptoms of zoonotic swine flu in humans are similar to those of influenza and of influenza-like illness in general , namely chills , fever , sore throat , muscle pains , severe headache , coughing , weakness and general discomfort .	Some people with swine flu also have reported runny nose , sore throat , nausea , vomiting and diarrhoea .
Since November 2009 , 14 deaths as a result of swine flu in Northern Ireland have been reported .	An unidentified Mexican toddler contracted swine flu in Brownsville , Texas , United States and died April 29th in Houston , Texas , United States at age 23 months .
Of these six people , one was pregnant , one had leukemia , one had Hodgkin 's lymphoma and two were known to be previously healthy .	It was first thought the boy had a normal influenza .
Because much of the illness and death associated with swine flu involves secondary infection by other pathogens , control strategies that rely on vaccination may be insufficient .	However , by the end of the month , investigators found that the virus had `` mysteriously disappeared '' , and there were no more signs of swine flu anywhere on the post .
In September 1988 , a swine flu virus killed one woman and infected others .	Scientists fear the swine flu virus might mutate , or change , into a pandemic as deadly as the 1918\/1919 pandemic .
The mortality rate is less than 10 % for swine flu , unless there are complications like hog cholera .	There are special vaccines against Swine influenza , but they only work if the virus strain is similar to some extent .
For example , during the 2009 swine flu outbreak in the United States , the CDC advised physicians to `` consider swine influenza infection in the differential diagnosis of patients with acute febrile respiratory illness who have either been in contact with persons with confirmed swine flu , or who were in one of the five U.S. states that have reported swine flu cases or in Mexico during the seven days preceding their illness onset . ''	( However , they happened at the same time as the flu epidemics that happen every year .
In some cases the infection can cause abortion .	Swine flu can cause fever , disorientation ( not being clear-headed ) , stiffness of the joints , vomiting , and loss of consciousness .
People with regular exposure to pigs are at increased risk of swine flu infection .	The vaccine for the human seasonal flu does not protect against the swine flu .
Swine flu can not be spread by pork products , since the virus is not transmitted through food .	However , the disease has also spread from one person to another .
This new strain appeared to be closely related to the strain involved in the 1918 flu pandemic .	Even during the Spanish flu pandemic , the first wave of the disease was relatively mild , while the second wave was very deadly .
Transmission of the virus from pigs to humans is not common and does not always lead to human flu , often resulting only in the production of antibodies in the blood .	Infections that spread from pigs to humans are rare .
The strain , a variant of H1N1 , is known as A\/New Jersey\/1976 ( H1N1 ) .	The 1918 flu pandemic strain had undergone polymorphism from swine and human H1N1 in all eight pieces of RNA gene segments .
In the aftermath of World War I , high casualty rates , increasing inflation compounded by heavy taxation , the deadly 1918 flu pandemic , and the disruption of trade during the war escalated human suffering in India .	After World War I , the high number of dead and wounded , inflation , heavy taxation and other problems all greatly affected the people of India .
The cerebrum ( Latin for brain ) , refers to the part of the brain comprising the cerebral cortex ( of the two cerebral hemispheres ) , as well as several subcortical structures , including the hippocampus , basal ganglia , and olfactory bulb .	The outer layers of the cerebrum are made up of the gray matter , and is called the cerebral cortex .
His face was permanently scarred by smallpox at the age of 7 .	This left his face scarred .
Both she and her son were surprised when in October of that year Dior died at a health spa in northern Italy of a massive heart attack .	Dior , who founded the company after the Second World War , died in 1957 .
Helicobacter pylori ( \/ ˌhɛlɪkɵˈbæktər paɪˈlɔəraɪ \/ ; H. pylori ) , previously named Campylobacter pylori , is a Gram-negative , microaerophilic bacterium found in the stomach .	Helicobacter pylori ( H. pylori ) is a spiral shaped bacterium that lives in or on the lining of the stomach .
The increased acid load damages the duodenum , which may eventually result in ulcers forming in the duodenum .	It causes more than 90 percent of ulcers , which are sores in the lining of the stomach or the duodenum ( the first part of the small intestine ) .
Chronic gastritis is likely to underlie H. pylori-related diseases .	Because doctors now know that most ulcers are caused by an H. pylori infection , they can be cured with the correct antibiotics .
In men , chlamydia shows symptoms of infectious urethritis ( inflammation of the urethra ) in about 50 % of cases .	Many people with Chlamydia show no symptoms of infection .
If the condition remains improved for 2-4 hours after treatment and no other complications arise , the child is typically discharged from the hospital .	If symptoms improve for 2-4 hours after treatment and no other complications happen , the child typically can leave the hospital .
Others use the term more broadly , to include acute laryngotracheitis , spasmodic croup , laryngeal diphtheria , bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis .	Croup also can be laryngeal diphtheria , bacterial tracheitis , laryngotracheobronchitis , and laryngotracheobronchopneumonitis .
The infection leads to swelling inside the throat , which interferes with normal breathing and produces the classical symptoms of a `` barking '' cough , stridor , and hoarseness .	People with croup can have a `` barking `` cough , stridor ( a high-pitched wheezing sound ) , and hoarseness .
Other symptoms include fever , coryza ( symptoms typical of the common cold ) , and chest wall indrawing .	Other symptoms are fever , symptoms typical of the common cold ) , and the skin between the ribs pulling in when the child breathes .
It is a relatively common condition that affects about 15 % of children at some point , most commonly between 6 months and 5-6 years of age .	About 15 % of children between 6 months and 5-6 years old get croup .
Croup ( or laryngotracheobronchitis ) is a respiratory condition that is usually triggered by an acute viral infection of the upper airway .	Croup ( or laryngotracheobronchitis ) is caused by a virus and leads to swelling inside the throat .
Croup is diagnosed on clinical grounds , once potentially more severe causes of symptoms have been excluded ( i.e. epiglottitis or an airway foreign body ) .	Doctors decide if a person has croup after they have eliminated other possibilities ( for example , an airway foreign body ) .
Croup is usually deemed to be due to a viral infection .	Most croup is caused by a virus infection .
As croup worsens , stridor may decrease considerably .	Croup symptoms often get worse at night .
85 % of children presenting to the emergency department have mild disease ; severe croup is rare ( ( 1 % ) .	This disease is caused by a milder virus .
The term preimplantation genetic screening ( PGS ) is used to denote procedures that do not look for a specific disease but use PGD techniques to identify embryos at risk .	Genetic screening finds out genetic susceptibility to a particular disease .
The selection of a female embryo offspring is used in order to prevent the transmission of X-linked Mendelian recessive diseases .	Genetic screening in a broader sense includes biochemical tests for the possible presence of genetic diseases , or mutant forms of genes associated with increased risk of developing genetic disorders .
Therefore , medical uses of PGD for selection of a female offspring to prevent the transmission of X-linked Mendelian recessive disorders are often applied .	Most of the time , testing is used to find changes that are associated with inherited disorders .
The course of the disease in animals is similar to the course of sleeping sickness in humans .	They have been studied a lot because they can spread sleeping sickness and other diseases .
Tsetse vector ranges mostly in the central part of Africa .	They are the insect vectors of some serious diseases .
Malaria is typically diagnosed by the microscopic examination of blood using blood films , or with antigen-based rapid diagnostic tests .	Malaria rapid diagnostic test A Malaria rapid diagnostic test is a blood test which can confirm a diagnosis of malaria in about twenty minutes .
Infection causes red cells to sickle more , and so they are removed from circulation sooner .	It makes their red blood cells all die .
There are several serious complications of malaria .	Symptoms of malaria are : Signs of malaria : Complications are problems that happen because of a disease .
Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease of humans and other animals caused by parasitic protozoans ( a type of unicellular microorganism ) of the genus Plasmodium .	Malaria is an infectious disease caused by a parasite : it is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito .
There are a number of other methods to reduce mosquito bites and slow the spread of malaria .	Mosquitoes will bite through thin cloth .
Symptoms of malaria can recur after varying symptom-free periods .	The most common symptom of malaria is fever , when the body temperature is high .
Intermittent preventive therapy is another intervention that has been used successfully to control malaria in pregnant women and infants , and in preschool children where transmission is seasonal .	Pregnant women and young children have more complications .
Symptoms of falciparum malaria arise 9-30 days after infection .	Falciparum malaria is the worst kind , and kills the most people .
The disease has a heavy burden in some countries , where it may be responsible for 30-50 % of hospital admissions , up to 50 % of outpatient visits , and up to 40 % of public health spending .	40 % of people live in a place where there is malaria .
Drug resistance poses a growing problem in 21st century malaria treatment .	If people got malaria in a place with no chloroquine-resistance other medicines can be used .
( see National Malaria Eradication Program ) In Suriname , the disease has been cleared from its capital city and coastal areas through a three-pronged approach initiated by the Global Malaria Eradication program in 1955 , involving : vector control through the use of DDT and IRS ; regular collection of blood smears from the population to identify existing malaria cases ; and providing chemotherapy to all affected individuals .	Vector control is not the only way to stop malaria .
There are a number of drugs that can help prevent malaria while traveling in areas where it exists .	People who live where there is no malaria usually have not had malaria .
Resistance has developed to several antimalarial drugs ; for example , chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum has spread to most malarial areas , and emerging resistance to artemisinin has become a problem in some parts of Southeast Asia .	In some places in the world , P. falciparum is killed by chloroquine .
It is associated with retinal whitening , which may be a useful clinical sign in distinguishing malaria from other causes of fever .	In some places , DDT may be a useful part of a program to stop malaria .
Relapse commonly occurs between 8-24 weeks and is commonly seen with P. vivax and P. ovale infections .	P. vivax and P. ovale both stay in the liver a long time .
Malaria parasites can also be transmitted by blood transfusions , although this is rare .	People can also get malaria from a blood transfusion .
Sickle cell trait causes a defect in the hemoglobin molecule in the blood .	Some people do not make enough of an enzyme in the blood .
Although rare in young children with severe malaria , acute respiratory distress syndrome occurs in 5-25 % of adults and up to 29 % of pregnant women .	Pregnant women and children are hurt most by malaria .
Malaria in pregnant women is an important cause of stillbirths , infant mortality and low birth weight , particularly in P. falciparum infection , but also with P. vivax .	Falciparum malaria also has more resistance to medicines .
Instead of retaining the biconcave shape of a normal red blood cell , the modified hemoglobin S molecule causes the cell to sickle or distort into a curved shape .	This makes the red blood cells block blood vessels .
Mosquito nets help keep mosquitoes away from people and reduce infection rates and transmission of malaria .	It is put over a bed where people sleep to keep mosquitoes out .
The syndrome is sometimes called malarial hepatitis .	This makes the person have the disease we call malaria .
Only female mosquitoes feed on blood ; male mosquitoes feed on plant nectar , and thus do not transmit the disease .	The male mosquito lives on the nectar of flowers .
This reduces the frequency with which malaria parasites complete their life cycle in the cell .	In many areas the malaria parasite has developed resistance to this drug and it is no longer useful to treat the disease .
Commonly , the disease is transmitted by a bite from an infected female Anopheles mosquito , which introduces the organisms from its saliva into a person 's circulatory system .	For malaria , the vector is the anopheles mosquito .
Among these is the development of respiratory distress , which occurs in up to 25 % of adults and 40 % of children with severe P. falciparum malaria .	Falciparum malaria is always treated with two or more medicines .
In 1910 , Nobel Prize in Medicine-winner Ronald Ross ( himself a malaria survivor ) , published a book titled The Prevention of Malaria that included a chapter titled `` The Prevention of Malaria in War . ''	This is called prophylaxis .
The vast majority of deaths are caused by P. falciparum and P. vivax , while P. ovale , and P. malariae cause a generally milder form of malaria that is rarely fatal .	There are several species ( kinds ) of Plasmodium that cause malaria in humans : P. vivax and P. falciparum cause the most malaria in people .
Cerebral malaria is one of the leading causes of neurological disabilities in African children .	The first case malaria is usually much worse .
Reinfection means the parasite that caused the past infection was eliminated from the body but a new parasite was introduced .	People catch malaria when the parasite enters the blood .
The use of preventative drugs is seldom practical for those who reside in areas where malaria exists , and their use is usually only in short-term visitors and travellers .	So people from places where there is no malaria may take prophylactic medicines when they go to places where there is malaria .
Although tropical regions are most affected , malaria 's furthest influence reaches into some temperate zones that have extreme seasonal changes .	People who get malaria for the first time have more complications .
Modern techniques that use the polymerase chain reaction to detect the parasite 's DNA have also been developed , but these are not widely used in malaria-endemic areas due to their cost and complexity .	But many of the places malaria may be found are in poor countries .
The economic impact includes costs of health care , working days lost due to sickness , days lost in education , decreased productivity due to brain damage from cerebral malaria , and loss of investment and tourism .	The best way to stop malaria is to use a combination of methods .
Malaria was eliminated from most parts of the USA in the early 20th century by such methods , and the use of the pesticide DDT and other means eliminated it from the remaining pockets in the South in the 1950s .	The first pesticide used for vector control was DDT ( dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane . )
After feeding , many mosquito rest on a nearby surface while digesting the bloodmeal , so if the walls of houses have been coated with insecticides , the resting mosquitoes can be killed before they can bite another person and transfer the malaria parasite .	Wear mosquitoes repellent ( this is a chemical that mosquitoes do not like , so they do not bite . )
When a fertilised mosquito bites an infected person , gametocytes are taken up with the blood and mature in the mosquito gut .	This is when someone gives blood to another person .
Initial manifestations of the disease-common to all malaria species-are similar to flu-like symptoms , and can resemble other conditions such as septicemia , gastroenteritis , and viral diseases .	Symptoms are changes in someone 's body that are signs for a disease .
Because most Plasmodium is resistant to one or more medications , one of three medications-mefloquine ( Lariam ) , doxycycline ( available generically ) , or the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride ( Malarone ) - is frequently needed .	Some Plasmodium are resistant .
A number of antimalarial medications are available in those who have the disease .	The people who have Malaria often feel like they had influenza .
This is due to the cost of the drugs , side effects from long-term use , and the difficulty in obtaining anti-malarial drugs outside of wealthy nations .	This is the case with the anti-malarial drug chloroquine .
The use of preventative drugs where malaria-bearing mosquitoes are present may encourage the development of partial resistance .	Taking anti-malarial drugs when not needed may also lead to the malaria parasite becoming resistant to these drugs so they will not work in the future when they actually are needed .
P. falciparum infection can cause recurrent fever every 36-48 hours or a less pronounced and almost continuous fever .	Many people with falciparum malaria must be treated in a hospital .
Malaria causes symptoms that typically include fever and headache , which in severe cases can progress to coma or death .	In the case of malaria one of the main symptoms which may lead to a clinical diagnosis of malaria is a fever .
He died on April 23 , 1983 of a heart attack after tripping over a wastebasket in his Scottsdale , Arizona home .	He retired to Scottsdale , Arizona , and died there of a heart attack in 1983 .
Sande died of an apparent anorexia in 1957 , after a long fast when she was 20 ; at the time of her death , she weighed only 60 pounds .	She weighed 60 pounds ( 27 kg ) .
Pesticides are often referred to according to the type of pest they control .	There are different types of pesticides for getting rid of different pests .
Target pests can include insects , plant pathogens , weeds , mollusks , birds , mammals , fish , nematodes ( roundworms ) , and microbes that destroy property , cause nuisance , or spread disease , or are disease vectors .	Some of these pests that people do not want are insects , microbes that destroy plants , and other things that affect humans in a bad way and it may kill humans too .
The disease takes its name from the Latin word Lepra , which means `` scaly '' , while the term `` Hansen 's disease '' is named after the physician Gerhard Armauer Hansen .	Today , it is mostly called Hansen 's disease , named after the person who discovered the bacterium , Gerhard Armauer Hansen .
The first symptom of leprosy which is most obvious is excess eye fluid .	The symptoms of leprosy are irregular spots and patches on the skin .
An intracellular , acid-fast bacterium , M. leprae is aerobic and rod-shaped , and is surrounded by the waxy cell membrane coating characteristic of the Mycobacterium genus .	It is caused by a bacterium , Mycobacterium leprae .
Leprosy is primarily a granulomatous disease of the peripheral nerves and mucosa of the upper respiratory tract ; skin lesions are the primary external sign .	Leprosy is an infectious disease .
Contrary to folklore , leprosy does not cause body parts to fall off , although they can become numb or diseased as a result of secondary infections ; these occur as a result of the body 's defenses being compromised by the primary disease .	Usually people do not die of leprosy , but of secondary infections and diseases they get .
Most new cases occur in 16 countries , with India accounting for more than half .	Most cases of leprosy occur in India , and other developing countries .
Globally in 2012 the number of cases of leprosy was 180,000 , having decreased a great deal since the 1960s .	There are practically no cases of leprosy in the developed world .
Several genes have been associated with a susceptibility to leprosy .	A person with leprosy is called a leper .
Leprosy has been associated with social stigma for much of history , which remains a barrier to self-reporting and early treatment .	In former times , leprosy was seen as a divine punishment for sins committed .
While much less common than elimination by vote , medical conditions , such as injury or infection , have eliminated several contestants .	Sometimes a player will have to be removed from the game due to an injury or infection .
Brecht 's subsequent commentary on those events , however , offered a very different assessment-in one of the poems in the Elegies , `` Die Lösung '' ( The Solution ) , a disillusioned Brecht writes : Brecht died on 14 August 1956 of a heart attack at the age of 58 .	Brecht died in 1956 at the age of 58 years in Berlin .
Adult babies roleplaying as a baby or small child for erotic stimulation is considered the signature expression of paraphilic infantilism .	Infantilism or Paraphilic Infantilism is a paraphilia to desire to wear diapers and be treated like an infant , or more commonly , a toddler .
There is no recognized etiology for infantilism and little research on the subject .	In any case , there is no single form , but a variety of infantilism types .
Infantilists , usually male , may also engage in cross-dressing and wear clothes stereotypically associated with young girls .	Most infantilists are heterosexual , or straight males .
Typically , fisting does not involve forcing the clenched fist into the vagina or rectum ; this is a practice called `` punching '' .	Fisting can be dangerous .
Fisting , handballing , fist-fucking , brachiovaginal , or brachioproctic insertion is a sexual activity that involves inserting a hand into the vagina or rectum .	Fisting is a sexual activity .
This approach is built on the principles of learning theory including operant and respondent conditioning , which makes up the area of applied behavior analysis or behavior modification .	His research of this theory - the idea he had - led him to create `` talking therapy '' - psychoanalysis - where he tried to figure out what could cause the mind to do things like this .
Lope de Vega took to his bed and died of Scarlet fever , in Madrid , on 27 August of that year .	Lope de Vega renewed the Spanish theater when people were becoming interested in it .
In humans urine is carried out through the urethra and that is part of the excretory system .	Animals have special excretory organs .
Many portable toilets are small molded plastic or fiberglass portable rooms with a lockable door and a receptacle to catch waste in a chemically treated container .	These toilets are called `` portable toilets '' .
When a toilet is flushed , the water flows into a sewage system and eventually ends in a water treatment plant .	A toilet is where most people get rid of bodily waste ( urine and feces ) into water where it will then be flushed into a sewage system .
Prior to the introduction of modern flush toilets , most human waste disposal was done through the use of household chamber pots , or took place outdoors in outhouses or latrines .	Some toilets are outside , in an `` outhouse '' .
In May 1878 , Dostoyevsky 's three-year-old son Alyosha died of epilepsy , a condition inherited from his father .	He says that Alyosha reminds him of his older brother , who died when he was young .
The symptoms of dissociative amnesia , dissociative fugue and depersonalization disorder are subsumed under the DID diagnosis and are not diagnosed separately .	A person diagnosed with DID can not be diagnosed with another dissociative disorder .
A majority of those diagnosed with DID meet the criteria for DSM axis II personality disorders such as borderline personality disorder ; a significant minority meet the criteria for avoidant personality disorder and other personality disorders .	The DSM uses the following criteria to diagnose DID : The International Classification of Diseases-10 ( ICD-10 ) uses the term multiple personality disorder instead of dissociative identity disorder .
According to the fifth Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) , DID includes `` the presence of two or more distinct identities or personality states '' that alternate control of the individual 's behavior , accompanied by the inability to recall personal information beyond what is expected through normal forgetfulness .	According to the DSM-IV , the symptoms of DID are `` the presence of two or more distinct identities or personality states '' ( which are often called `` alters '' ) , as well as forgetting things that people normally do n't forget .
DID is one of the most controversial psychiatric disorders with no clear consensus regarding its diagnosis or treatment .	It is one of the most controversial mental disorders because people disagree about what causes it .
The large number of symptoms presented by individuals diagnosed with DID has led to some clinicians to suggest that , rather than being a separate disorder , diagnosis of DID is actually an indication of the severity of the other disorders diagnosed in the patient .	Most patients with DID are also diagnosed with other mental disorders .
Malingering should be considered if there is possible financial or forensic gain , as well as factitious disorder if help-seeking behavior is prominent .	Doctors must also rule out factitious disorder ( pretending to have DID for attention or sympathy ) or malingering ( pretending to have DID for another reason like avoiding prison ) .
Most dissociative disorder cases have co-morbid mental disorders , with an average of 8 axis I and 4.5 axis II DSM diagnoses .	It is listed in the mental health diagnosis manual known as the DSM IV .
Co-morbid disorders can include substance abuse , eating disorders , anxiety , posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) and personality disorders .	It is sometimes known as multiple personality disorder ( MPD ) .
Paris Green was heavily sprayed by airplane in Italy , Sardinia , and Corsica during 1944 and in Italy in 1945 to control malaria .	It was dropped from airplanes to stop malaria in Italy .
The color of Paris Green is said to range from a pale , but vivid , blue green when very finely ground , to a deeper true green when coarsely ground .	It has a very bright blue-green color .
If a potential donor is found to have anti-D antibodies or any strong atypical blood group antibody by antibody screening in the blood bank , they would not be accepted as a donor ( or in some blood banks the blood would be drawn but the product would need to be appropriately labeled ) ; therefore , donor blood plasma issued by a blood bank can be selected to be free of D antibodies and free of other atypical antibodies , and such donor plasma issued from a blood bank would be suitable for a recipient who may be D positive or D negative , as long as blood plasma and the recipient are ABO compatible .	Group A ( with the A-antigen ) has anti-B antibodies Group B ( with the B-antigen ) has anti-A antibodies Group AB ( with both A and B-antigens ) has no antibodies Group O ( with no antigens ) has anti-A and anti-B antibodies The blood is thus tagged as being A positive , O negative for instance , where the letter refers to the ABO blood group and `` positive '' or `` negative '' refers to whether or not the RhD-antigen of the Rhesus blood group system was found .
Patients should ideally receive their own blood or type-specific blood products to minimize the chance of a transfusion reaction .	When a blood transfusion or an organ donation takes place , it is important to know what type of blood the donor ( who gives blood ) and the receiver ( who needs blood ) have , so that the receiver 's blood does not have an allergic reaction to the donor 's blood .
Units of packed red cells are made by removing as much of the plasma as possible from whole blood units .	This blood type is based on whether or not there are substances on the outside of red blood cells that can cause an allergic reaction when it comes into contact with certain other blood cells .
( In addition , Simone received a diagnosis of bipolar disorder in the late 1980s ) .	In the 1960s , Simone was diagnosed with bipolar disorder .
Mild zinc deficiency depresses immunity , although excessive zinc does also .	Zinc deficiency makes one more easily get infections .
Stomach acid contains hydrochloric acid , in which metallic zinc dissolves readily to give corrosive zinc chloride .	Acids can dissolve this coating and react with the zinc metal .
There is evidence of induced copper deficiency in those taking 100-300 mg of zinc daily .	If they do not get enough zinc in their food , they can get a mineral deficiency .
1537-1607 ) and Girolamo Amati ( ca .	Andrea Amati 's two sons were Antonio Amati who was born about 1540 in Cremona and died there on 14 February 1607 and Girolamo Amati who was born about 1561 in Cremona and died of the plague there on 21 October 1630 .
How doctors should present information about a patient 's condition to the patient has changed over time .	The doctor knows more than the patient , but has to explain the patient 's situation , and has to ask the patient what treatments should be done .
The doctor-patient relationship is central to the practice of healthcare and is essential for the delivery of high-quality health care in the diagnosis and treatment of disease .	Only when there is a good relationship between the two is it possible to have high-quality healthcare .
In these circumstances and also in cases where there is genuine divergence of medical opinions , a second opinion from another physician may be sought or the patient may choose to go to another physician .	In certain cases , it may be good to get the opinion of a second doctor , regarding a condition .
Because hypophosphorous acid can reduce elemental iodine to form hydroiodic acid , which is a reagent effective for reducing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine to methamphetamine , the United States Drug Enforcement Administration designated hypophosphorous acid ( and its salts ) as a List I precursor chemical effective November 16 , 2001 .	It is an acid .
An infectious tumor-causing disease , fibropapillomatosis , is also a problem in some populations .	There is also a disease called fibropapillomatosis which is affecting them .
Meditation is often used to clear the mind and ease many health issues , such as high blood pressure , depression , and anxiety .	Research shows that Buddhist meditation lowers stress , anxiety and depression .
In Aspects of Christian meditation , the Catholic Church warned of potential incompatibilities in mixing Christian and eastern styles of meditation .	Most types of Buddhist meditation focus on something .
Their view goes beyond the emphasis on psychology : it might be said that an individual 's needs are representative of the costs of being human within society .	It is often said that a person needs love , family , and friends .
Some artists frequently mentioned as synesthetes did not in fact have the condition .	Most synesthetes find out in their childhood that they have synethesia .
The idea to overlap these senses comes from the natural condition synaesthesia .	Synesthesia , or synaesthesia , is a condition where the brain mixes up the senses .
The Doctor , at first , said that he was not a physician , often referring to himself as a scientist or an engineer .	The Doctor often takes other people with him , who are usually called `` companions '' or `` assistants '' .
Water shortages may be caused by climate change , such as altered weather patterns including droughts or floods , increased pollution , and increased human demand and overuse of water .	Common human causes include over-consumption , bad governance , pollution , and increases in the demand for water .
In early 1959 Holiday had cirrhosis of the liver .	She had liver and heart disease .
The Greeks believed amethyst gems could prevent intoxication , while medieval European soldiers wore amethyst amulets as protection in battle in the belief that amethysts heal people and keep them cool-headed .	Amethysts are also worn because people think it makes them look gentle .
The main parts are the root of the penis ( radix ) : It is the attached part , consisting of the bulb of penis in the middle and the crus of penis , one on either side of the bulb ; the body of the penis ( corpus ) ; and the epithelium of the penis consists of the shaft skin , the foreskin , and the preputial mucosa on the inside of the foreskin and covering the glans penis .	The foreskin is connected to the head of the penis .
In many mammals , the size of a flaccid penis is smaller than its erect size .	The size of a soft penis ( not erect ) is much smaller than when it is erect .
The human penis is made up of three columns of tissue : two corpora cavernosa lie next to each other on the dorsal side and one corpus spongiosum lies between them on the ventral side .	It has two corpora cavernosa ( special pieces of muscle ) next to each other and a corpus spongiosum ( spongy muscle ) between them .
Ejaculation is the ejecting of semen from the penis , and is usually accompanied by orgasm .	Ejaculation is when semen is pushed from the penis .
While results vary across studies , the consensus is that the average erect human penis is approximately 12.9-15 cm ( 5.1-5 .9 in ) in length with 95 % of adult males falling within the interval 10.7-19 .1 cm ( 4.2-7 .5 in ) .	The average size of an erect human penis is between 13 - 16 cm ( 5.1 - 6 in ) .
The human penis is an external sex organ of male humans .	The human penis is made up of three types of tissue .
The urethra , which is the last part of the urinary tract , traverses the corpus spongiosum , and its opening , known as the meatus \/ miːˈeɪtəs \/ , lies on the tip of the glans penis .	The urethra , the tube where urine and semen travel through , runs down the corpus spongiosum ( spongy tissue ) , and opens at the tip of the penis .
An erection is the stiffening and rising of the penis , which occurs during sexual arousal , though it can also happen in non-sexual situations .	This activity is called sexual intercourse .
The urethra is on the ventral side of the body of the penis .	Semen moves through the urethra and comes out of the hole at the tip of the penis .
In mammals the penis is divided into three parts : The internal structures of the penis consist mainly of cavernous , erectile tissue , which is a collection of blood sinusoids separated by sheets of connective tissue ( trabeculae ) .	The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the end of the penis .
Bulls have a fibro-elastic penis .	Some men have the foreskin cut off when they are adults because they have problems with their foreskin .
Hahnemann believed that this process aroused and enhanced `` the spirit-like medicinal powers of the crude substances '' .	Hahnemann said this would bring out the `` spirit-like medicinal powers held within a drug '' .
The clear evidence is saying this is wrong , but homoeopathy is still used on the NHS . ''	Some researchers claim that there is scientific evidence that homeopathy helps in many problems and diseases .
If homeopathy is correct , much of physics , chemistry , and pharmacology must be incorrect ... '' .	Most scientists believe that homeopathy does not work , because its ideas go against those of physics and chemistry .
Instances of arsenic poisoning have occurred after use of arsenic-containing homeopathic preparations .	Skeptics claim that people who feel better after homeopathic treatment are likely feeling better because they think they will feel better , a condition known as the `` placebo effect . ''
Homeopaths claim that use of conventional medicines will `` push the disease deeper '' and cause more serious conditions , a process referred to as `` suppression '' .	Homeopaths claim that the solution carries a memory of the original substance , but according to science , it is really unlikely that this memory exists or that homeopathy will help people 's health .
Cocteau died of a heart attack at his chateau in Milly-la-Forêt , Essonne , France , on 11 October 1963 at the age of 74 .	p182 Cocteau died of a heart attack in Milly-la-Foret , Essonne .
MRSA is any strain of Staphylococcus aureus that has developed , through the process of natural selection , resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics , which include the penicillins ( methicillin , dicloxacillin , nafcillin , oxacillin , etc. ) and the cephalosporins .	It is tougher to treat than most strains of Staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it is resistant to some commonly used antibiotics .
Staphylococcus bacteria account for almost half of all UK hospital infections .	Staph is one of the most common causes of skin infections in the U.S. Usually , these are minor and do n't need special treatment .
But some CA-MRSA strains display enhanced virulence , spreading more rapidly and causing illness much more severe than traditional healthcare-associated ( HA - ) MRSA infections , and they can affect vital organs and lead to widespread infection ( sepsis ) , toxic shock syndrome , and necrotizing ( `` flesh-eating '' ) pneumonia .	Once there , it can cause an infection .
The rest of the respiratory tract , open wounds , intravenous catheters , and the urinary tract are also potential sites for infection .	But it can also cause more serious skin infections or infect surgical wounds , the bloodstream , the lungs , or the urinary tract .
The term `` ganglion '' refers to the peripheral nervous system .	In anatomy , a ganglion ( plural ganglia ) is a biological tissue mass , part of the nervous system .
Among vertebrates there are three major groups of ganglia : In the autonomic nervous system , fibers from the central nervous system to the ganglia are known as preganglionic fibers , while those from the ganglia to the effector organ are called postganglionic fibers .	The rest of the central nervous system runs under the gut .
The human disease occurs in two stages : an acute stage , which occurs shortly after an initial infection , and a chronic stage that develops over many years .	The disease has four stages .
Prevention mostly involves eliminating kissing bugs and avoiding their bites .	Strategies of controlling the disease are mostly focused on eliminating the insect vector , and on preventing contamination from other sources .
It is estimated that 7 to 8 million people , mostly in Mexico , Central America and South America have Chagas disease .	It is common in Central and South America .
Using a carefully bundled group of these DNA threads and keeping them hydrated , Wilkins and a graduate student Raymond Gosling obtained x-ray photographs of DNA that showed that the long , thin DNA molecule in the sample from Signer had a regular , crystal-like structure in these threads .	Wilkins and a graduate student , Raymond Gosling , got the first X-ray diffraction photos of DNA in 1950 .
In humans , immunodeficiency can either be the result of a genetic disease such as severe combined immunodeficiency , acquired conditions such as HIV\/AIDS , or the use of immunosuppressive medication .	Immunodeficiency can either be the result of a genetic ( inherited ) disease , or an infection , such as the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) , that is caused by the retrovirus HIV , or other causes .
The immune system is a system of biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease .	In some organisms , the immune system has its own problems within itself , called disorders .
B cells are involved in the humoral immune response , whereas T cells are involved in cell-mediated immune response .	After the body gains immunity towards a certain pathogen , if infection by that pathogen occurs again , the immune response is called the secondary response .
Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to infection .	The immune system is the set of tissues which work together to resist infections .
This prompted the use of gas masks .	This propelled a disease .
Colors can be measured and quantified in various ways ; indeed , a human 's perception of colors is a subjective process whereby the brain responds to the stimuli that are produced when incoming light reacts with the several types of cone photoreceptors in the eye .	The nervous system derives color by comparing the responses to light from the several types of cone photoreceptors in the eye .
Each seminal vesicle spans approximately 5 cm , though its full unfolded length is approximately 10 cm , but it is curled up inside the gland 's structure .	Both vesicles are about 5 cm in length , but it is curled up .
Each vesicle forms as an outpocketing of the wall of the ampulla of one vas deferens .	Each gland makes a ball shape on the wall of each vas deferens .
Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis .	About 70 % of the seminal fluid in humans comes from the seminal vesicles .
Hyperkalemia ( hyperkalemia in British English , hyper - high ; kalium , potassium ; - emia , `` in the blood '' ) refers to the condition in which the concentration of the electrolyte potassium ( K + ) in the blood is elevated .	Hyperkalemia is a medical term to indicate that the level of potassium in the blood is too high .
The female anatomy has two vestibular bulbs beneath the skin of the labia minora ( at the entrance to the vagina ) , which expand at the same time as the glans clitoris to cap the ends of the corpora cavernosa .	The female has no corpus spongiosum , but instead two vestibular bulbs beneath the skin at the entrance to the vagina ) , which expand at the same time as the glans clitoris .
This is homologous to the corpus cavernosum penis in the male ; the body of the clitoris contains erectile tissue in a pair of corpora cavernosa ( literally `` cave-like bodies '' ) , with a recognisably similar structure .	It is similar to the corpus cavernosum penis in the male .
In some circumstances , release of nitric oxide precedes relaxation of the clitoral cavernosal artery and nearby muscle , in a process similar to male arousal .	Sometimes , release of nitric oxide relaxes muscles around the vagina , called sexual arousal .
Modern disposable baby diapers and incontinence products have a layered construction , which allows the transfer and distribution of urine to an absorbent core structure where it is locked in .	Diapers that can be washed must be folded in intricate ways ( like origami ) before being put on .
After the Second World War , mothers increasingly wanted freedom from washing diapers so that they could work and travel , causing an increasing demand for disposable diapers .	The scientific term for liking to wear diapers is `` Diaper Fetishists . ''
He died of acute respiratory failure resulting from emphysema at his Beverly Hills home on Christmas morning 1995 , at age 78 .	Martin died in Beverly Hills , California over the Christmas holidays in 1995 , watching television in bed .
When the lower chambers are filled and the valves to the atria are closed , the ventricles undergo isovolumetric contraction ( contraction of the ventricles while all valves are closed ) , marking the first stage of systole .	When the lower chambers are filled and the valves to the atria are closed , the ventricles contract .
The second phase of systole sends blood from the left ventricle to the aorta and body , and from the right ventricle to the lungs .	Blood is pumped out of the heart to the body from the left ventricle and to the lungs from the right ventricle as seen in the diagram to the right .
Atrial systole occurs late in ventricular diastole .	This is the second phase and is called `` ventricular systole '' .
Although black pepper causes a similar burning sensation , it is caused by a different substance-piperine .	Black pepper and Sichuan pepper cause similar burning sensations .
Euthanasia ( from Greek : εὐθανασία ; `` good death '' : εὖ , eu ; `` well '' or `` good '' - θάνατος , thanatos ; `` death '' ) refers to the practice of intentionally ending a life in order to relieve pain and suffering .	Active euthanasia , on the other hand , involves deliberately acting to end a person 's life .
Robert Ingersoll argued for euthanasia , stating in 1894 that where someone is suffering from a terminal illness , such as terminal cancer , they should have a right to end their pain through suicide .	The reason why the person was killed must be to help them end the pain or sickness , not for any other reason .
The British House of Lords Select Committee on Medical Ethics defines euthanasia as `` a deliberate intervention undertaken with the express intention of ending a life , to relieve intractable suffering '' .	Ending the lives of these people to take away their suffering is called euthanasia .
It allowed for the death of any person of at least ten years of age who suffered from an ailment that would prove fatal and cause extreme pain , should they be of sound mind and express a desire to artificially hasten their death .	Many people have diseases that cause pain , or that make them suffer .
Sometimes two or more causes lead to altered state of consciousness , for example a psychiatric disorder and substance abuse .	During an altered state of consciousness , brain waves occupy different frequencies ( i.e. Epsilon , Delta , Theta , Alpha , Beta , Gamma ) .
For reasons unknown , Scotland , Rowling 's country of adoption , has the highest rate of multiple sclerosis in the world .	The marriage ended in divorce and Rowling moved to Edinburgh , Scotland .
His vision problem manifested itself by the time he was two years old , when he was diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa , a degenerative disease .	He is blind , and has retinitis pigmentosa .
Oxytocin and vasopressin are the only known hormones released by the human posterior pituitary gland to act at a distance .	Oxytocin is a hormone found in mammals .
But at the end of the meeting , Reagan had regained his alertness However , Dr. Lawrence K. Altman , a physician employed as a reporter for the New York Times , noted that `` the line between mere forgetfulness and the beginning of Alzheimer 's can be fuzzy '' , and all four of Reagan 's White House doctors said that they saw no evidence of Alzheimer 's while he was president .	But then , at the end , he regained his alertness .
Reagan suffered a fall at his Bel Air home on January 13 , 2001 , resulting in a broken hip .	Reagan died on June 5 , 2004 at his Bel Air , Los Angeles home from pneumonia after a ten year battle with Alzheimer 's disease .
On March 30 , 1981 , only 69 days into the new administration , Reagan , his press secretary James Brady , Washington police officer Thomas Delahanty , and Secret Service agent Timothy McCarthy were struck by gunfire from would-be assassin John Hinckley , Jr. , outside the Washington Hilton Hotel .	69 days after becoming President , he was leaving after a speaking engagement at the Washington Hilton Hotel in Washington , D.C. .
In January 1876 , his father died of bronchitis following a long period of depression .	He died of influenza .
Mill died the year after Russell 's birth , but his writings had a great effect on Russell 's life .	The Russell Archives at McMaster also have more than 30,000 letters that he wrote .
The discovery in 2009 of the `` Jat mutation '' that causes a type of glaucoma in Romani populations suggests that the Romani people are the descendants of the Jat people found in the Indian subcontinent .	The Romani are an ethnic group found mainly in Europe .
Big halls ( exedrae ) were built along the single depth sides of the palaestra with seats for those enjoying intellectual pursuits , and the double depth side was divided into an area for youth activities ( ephebeum ) , a punching bag area ( coryceum ) , a room for applying powders ( conisterium ) , a room for cold bathing , and an oil storeroom ( elaeothesium ) .	Just off these colonnades were dressing rooms , rooms for bathing , storage rooms , and rooms for lectures and meeting friends .
Bird said that only 1.3 % of the procedures in the dental practices associated with ReachOut involve crowns and root canals .	He said that the main reason was that ReachOut did not give good care after the dental work was done because the dentists only came to the school two times per year .
ReachOut Healthcare America of Phoenix says it performs a valuable service , providing access to dental care for underserved children .	At first the company coordinated dental checkups and dental work for people in nursing homes in Michigan .
A combination of factors , including depopulation due to disease , land disputes between the Choctaw and Cherokee , and pressures from the United States government had largely depopulated the area prior to Revolutionary War veteran John Hunt 's arrival and settlement in the land around the Big Spring in 1805 .	This was the year of John Hunt 's arrival .
Ionizing radiation which has a higher frequency and shorter wavelength than nonionizing radiation , has many uses but can be a health hazard ; exposure to it can cause burns , radiation sickness , cancer and genetic damage .	Because it is lower energy radiation , the use of this type of radiation in medical fields and everyday life poses fewer health risks than ionizing radiation in forms such as X-rays .
Laboratories and other facilities are categorized as BSL ( Biosafety Level ) 1-4 or as P1 through P4 for short ( Pathogen or Protection Level ) .	There are four biosafety levels made by the Center of Disease Control .
Although it had historical precursors , this idea derived its main impetus from a famous report by William Beecher Scoville and Brenda Milner describing the results of surgical destruction of the hippocampi ( in an attempt to relieve epileptic seizures ) , in Henry Molaison , known until his death in 2008 as `` Patient H.M. '' The unexpected outcome of the surgery was severe anterograde and partial retrograde amnesia ; Molaison was unable to form new episodic memories after his surgery and could not remember any events that occurred just before his surgery , but he did retain memories of events that occurred many years earlier extending back into his childhood .	The patient could not form new memories of events after his surgery , and could not remember any events that occurred just before his surgery .
It belongs to the limbic system and plays important roles in the consolidation of information from short-term memory to long-term memory and spatial navigation .	It is is important in spacial memory and navigation , and helps turn short-term memory into long-term memory .
The hippocampus is located under the cerebral cortex ; and in primates it is located in the medial temporal lobe , underneath the cortical surface .	The hippocampus is under the cerebral cortex .
This retention of older memories leads to the idea that consolidation over time involves the transfer of memories out of the hippocampus to other parts of the brain .	The connection of hippocampus with memory was made by a famous report .
Similarly , some MRI studies have reported shrinkage of the hippocampus in elderly people , but other studies have failed to reproduce this finding .	This gave the results of the destruction of the hippocampi by surgery ( an attempt to relieve epileptic seizures ) .
( 2000 ) showed that part of the hippocampus is larger in taxi drivers than in the general public , and that more experienced drivers have bigger hippocampi .	Therefore , the hippocampus takes up a larger fraction of the cortex in rodents than in primates .
Exposure to ionizing radiation causes damage to living tissue , and can result in mutation , radiation sickness , cancer , and death .	Scientists use these machines to make radiation so they can study it .
The female immune system might otherwise attack sperm in the reproductive tract .	The flagellum acts like a motor to propel the sperm cell through the female reproductive system .
The specific glycoproteins coating sperm cells are also utilized by some cancerous and bacterial cells , some parasitic worms , and HIV-infected white blood cells , thereby avoiding an immune response from the host organism .	An animal sperm cell is capable of movement , as it has to get to the uterus to meet with the ovum .
Today , `` intellectual disability '' is the preferred and more commonly used descriptor .	Intellectual disability is a permanent condition .
A third condition requiring onset in childhood is used to distinguish intellectual disability from dementia such as Alzheimer 's disease or due to traumatic brain injuries .	Intellectual disability is different from dementia .
Most people with intellectual disability do not look like they are afflicted with such , especially if the disability is caused by environmental factors such as malnutrition or lead poisoning .	Many people with an intellectual disability have other health problems , for which they will be given specific drugs .
However , English statute law uses mental impairment elsewhere in a less well-defined manner-e.g. to allow exemption from taxes-implying that intellectual disability without any behavioral problems is what is meant .	There are different definitions of what is considered an intellectual disability .
In the next revision , the ICD-11 is expected to replace the term `` mental retardation '' with `` intellectual disability , '' and the DSM-5 has replaced it with `` intellectual disability ( intellectual developmental disorder ) . ''	39-83 % of women with intellectual disability will be sexually abused before they are 18 years old .
Antidepressants are drugs used for the treatment of major depressive disorder and other conditions , including dysthymia , anxiety disorders , obsessive compulsive disorder , eating disorders , chronic pain , neuropathic pain and , in some cases , dysmenorrhoea , snoring , migraines , attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , substance abuse and sleep disorders .	Antidepressants balance these chemicals , lifting the depression .
Exposure and consumption of the mercury waste products , including methylmercury , that were dumped into Minamata Bay by Chisso are believed to be the cause of Minamata disease in Minamata , Japan .	Some byproducts of this reaction that have mercury in them are thought to have poisoned many people in Japan ( Minamata disease ) .
A study conducted by Cornell University has shown that hot chocolate contains more antioxidants than wine and tea , therefore reducing the risk of heart disease .	Some studies have shown that hot chocolate may be healthy because of antioxidants that are in cocoa .
Until the 19th century , hot chocolate was even used medicinally to treat ailments such as stomach diseases .	Until the 1800s , hot chocolate was also used by doctors as a medicine against some diseases .
A few weeks after the uprising of 17 June 1953 , Reuter died suddenly and unexpectedly from a heart attack in West Berlin at the age of 64 .	He died of a heart attack in Berlin on 29 September 1953 .
People with narcolepsy may dream even when they only fall asleep for a few seconds .	People with narcolepsy have a troubled circadian rhythm : Very often , they do not sleep well at night , and during the day they fall asleep uncontrollably .
It is felt that this subgroup might have dysfunction in multiple arousal systems , including hypocretin and GABA ( see idiopathic hypersomnia causes ) .	Some scientists think that narcolepsy is caused by a lack of hypocretin .
Although the cause of narcolepsy was not determined for many years after its discovery , scientists had discovered conditions that seemed to be associated with an increase in an individual 's risk of having the disorder .	There are certain drugs that can treat the effects of narcolepsy .
Thus , narcolepsy is a disorder in which REM sleep appears at an abnormal time .	Narcolepsy affects the way the nerves work .
People with narcolepsy often experience disturbed nocturnal sleep and an abnormal daytime sleep pattern , which often is confused with insomnia .	Things that people with narcolepsy may experience : Hallucinations , sleep paralysis , and automatic behavior can also occur in people who are not narcoleptics .
Individuals with narcolepsy often have reduced numbers of these protein-producing neurons in their brains .	Quite a few sufferers also have another family member with the disease .
Some people develop a condition called macular edema .	Macular edema is treated with focal laser treatment .
Present recommended treatment for diabetic macular edema is Modified Grid laser photocoagulation combined with multiple injections of Anti-VEGF .	According to research done by the National Eye Institute , prompt treatment of diabetic macular edema with the drug Lucentis , with or without laser treatment , resulted in better vision than laser treatment alone , or steroid injections .
This helps in clearing the macular edema .	If both eyes are affected by macular edema only one is treated at a time usually a few weeks apart .
The longer a person has diabetes , the higher his or her chances of developing diabetic retinopathy .	To prevent diabetic retinopathy from getting worse , diabetics should control their levels of blood sugar , blood pressure , and blood cholesterol .
A person with proliferative retinopathy will always be at risk for new bleeding , as well as glaucoma , a complication from the new blood vessels .	Proliferative retinopathy is treated with scatter laser surgery , which helps to shrink the abnormal blood vessels .
Even macular edema , which may cause vision loss more rapidly , may not have any warning signs for some time .	During the first three stages of diabetic retinopathy , no treatment is needed , unless there is macular edema .
It is widely used for early stages of proliferative retinopathy .	This treatment is done in cases of proliferative retinopathy that causes severe scar tissue to form on the retina or when new blood vessels continue to grow on the retina after laser treatments .
In treating advanced diabetic retinopathy , the burns are used to destroy the abnormal blood vessels that form in the retina .	During the surgery 1,000 to 2,000 laser burns are placed in the areas of the retina away from the macula , causing the abnormal blood vessels to shrink .
The lack of oxygen in the retina causes fragile , new , blood vessels to grow along the retina and in the clear , gel-like vitreous humor that fills the inside of the eye .	The vitreous humur is a clear , thick , gel-like fluid , that fills the inside of the eyeball and helps it to maintain its shape .
A ` C ' shaped area around the macula is treated with low intensity small burns .	Up to several hundred small laser burns are placed in the areas of retinal leakage surrounding the macula .
The fluid makes the macula swell , which blurs vision .	A common sign of swelling of the lens is blurring of distance vision while near vision remains adequate .
Guthrie died from complications of Huntington 's disease , a progressive genetic neurological disorder .	Guthrie 's career was cut short by an illness called Huntington 's disease ( or chorea ) which over time left him in a wheelchair , then finally unable to get out of bed , or even hold a guitar .
The cause of diverticulitis is unknown .	One of the complications of diverticulitis can be the formation of an abscess in the abdominal cavity .
The bowel resection with colostomy implies a temporary colostomy which is followed by a second operation to reverse the colostomy .	It is also possible to do a resection of the diseased part of the colon and make a colostomy .
The surgeon makes an opening in the abdominal wall ( a colostomy ) which helps clear the infection and inflammation .	The inflammation or infection can then reach the abdominal wall and causes peritonitis .
Less commonly , an individual with diverticulitis may present with right-sided abdominal pain .	The pain is usually present in the lower abdomen on the left side .
Other diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) and stomach ulcers cause similar problems , so these symptoms do not always mean a person has diverticulosis .	This infection can also spread to other parts of the body such as organs near the intestine , causing sepsis , which is dangerous .
Diverticulitis may worsen throughout the first day , as it starts as small pains and\/or diarrhea , and may slowly turn into vomiting and sharp pains .	People with diverticulitis can also have nausea , vomiting , difficulty or pain while passing urine and changes in bowel habits .
It is also the first time two women have been awarded the Physiology or Medicine prize .	The Prize is given every year to a person or persons who have done excellent work in the area of medicine ( treating or stopping disease ) or physiology ( the way the body works ) .
Familial forms of prion disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern , which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder .	There are two common signs which are seen in typical prion diseases : Few types of prion diseases are known .
In rare circumstances , prion diseases also can be transmitted by exposure to prion-contaminated tissues or other biological materials obtained from individuals with prion disease .	The most important ones are : Prion diseases are very rare .
Mutations in the PRNP gene cause prion disease .	Almost all of the known prion diseases are neurologic diseases .
Unlike other kinds of infectious disease that are spread by microbes , the infectious agent in TSEs is believed to be a type of protein called prion protein .	Unlike diseases that are caused by a mutation of the gene resulting in the expression of a mutant protein , prions are able to replicate and transmit diseases through physical contact with the normal proteins resulting in a structural change from the normal to state to the prion state .
This , combined with the highly variable nature of prion disease pathology , is why a prion disease can not be diagnosed based solely on a patient 's symptoms .	Prion diseases are very rare , and no treatment is available for most of them .
High blood pressure is said to be present if it is often at or above 140\/90 mmHg .	For example , someone whose highest blood pressure is 140 mmHg and whose lowest blood pressure is 90 mmHg would have their blood pressure written as 140\/90 .
Hypertension puts strain on the heart , leading to hypertensive heart disease and coronary artery disease if not treated .	Hypertension can lead to diseases such as heart attack , stroke , and kidney disease .
A moderately high arterial blood pressure is associated with a shortened life expectancy while mild elevation is not .	Blood pressure is written with the highest pressure first , followed by the lowest pressure .
Primary ( essential ) hypertension is the most common form of hypertension , accounting for 90-95 % of all cases of hypertension .	In most cases hypertension is primary ( 90-95 % ) , with only a very small amount being secondary ( 5-10 % ) .
Hypertension is classified as either primary ( essential ) hypertension or secondary hypertension ; about 90-95 % of cases are categorized as `` primary hypertension '' which means high blood pressure with no obvious underlying medical cause .	Primary hypertension means that the hypertension is not caused by any other disease of the body .
Some additional signs and symptoms may suggest secondary hypertension , i.e. hypertension due to an identifiable cause such as kidney diseases or endocrine diseases .	Hypertension comes in two main types , called `` primary '' and `` secondary '' .
Blood pressure is summarised by two measurements , systolic and diastolic , which depend on whether the heart muscle is contracting ( systole ) or relaxed between beats ( diastole ) .	When blood pressure is measured , the highest pressure ( when the heart is contracting ) is called systole , and the lowest pressure ( when the heart is relaxing ) is called diastole .
In contrast there is no evidence that blood pressure needs to be lowered rapidly in hypertensive urgencies where there is no evidence of target organ damage and over aggressive reduction of blood pressure is not without risks .	Examples of medications include : Even small reductions in blood pressure can have a large effect on one 's health .
For most people , recommendations are to reduce blood pressure to less than or equal to somewhere between 140\/90 mmHg to 160\/100 mmHg .	Blood pressure is measured with a number followed by `` mmHg '' , which stands for `` millimetres of mercury '' .
If hypertension is high enough to justify immediate use of medications , lifestyle changes are still recommended in conjunction with medication .	The following are recommended by the 2004 British Hypertension Society guidelines : If lifestyle changes fail , then medications are often required .
In Jan 2011 , researchers searching for brucellosis among feral hog populations in Texas discovered widespread tularemia infection or evidence of past infection in feral hog populations of at least 2 Texas counties , even though tularemia is not normally associated with pigs at all .	To this date , no cases of tularemia infection have been reported as a result .
Other preventive measures include the prompt removal of ticks , and the use of rubber gloves and eye protection when handling potentially infected wild animals .	The best way to prevent tularemia infection is to wear rubber gloves when handling or skinning rodents or lagomorphs ( as rabbits ) , avoid ingesting uncooked wild game and untreated water sources , and wearing long-sleeved clothes and using an insect repellent to prevent tick bites .
There are some hundreds to a thousand outbreaks of tularemia yearly in Finland , the same goes to neighboring Sweden .	In summer 2000 , an outbreak of tularemia in Martha 's Vineyard resulted in one dead person .
The drug of choice for tularemia has historically been streptomycin or tetracycline-class drugs such as doxycycline .	The disease can be treated with antibiotics .
Tularemia is not spread directly from person to person .	There have been cases where the disease spread to humans .
Rodents , rabbits , and hares often serve as reservoir hosts , but waterborne infection accounts for 5 to 10 % of all tularemia in the US .	Usually rodents get it .
For example , Thorotrast , a ( incidentally radioactive ) suspension previously used as a contrast medium in x-ray diagnostics , is a potent human carcinogen known because of its retention within various organs and persistent emission of alpha particles .	Thorotrast , previously used in x-rays , is a human carcinogen .
It is considered a major component in Ayurvedic and Unani medicine and is particularly prescribed for skin diseases .	It is considered a large part of Ayurvedic medicine .
The main medical purpose of washing hands is to cleanse the hands of pathogens ( including bacteria or viruses ) and chemicals which can cause personal harm or disease .	Germs are bacteria , viruses , or fungi .
Indeed , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) has stated : `` It is well documented that one of the most important measures for preventing the spread of pathogens is effective hand washing . ''	Hand washing prevents lots of new disease .
Moisturizing lotion is often recommended to keep the hands from drying out ; Dry skin can lead to skin damage which can increase the risk for the transmission of infection .	Use moisturizing lotion so hands do not dry if the hands are being washed many times every day .
The lower tendency to induce irritant contact dermatitis became an attraction as compared to soap and water hand washing .	Wet hands and add soap .
In most jurisdictions , a quantitative measurement such as a blood alcohol content ( BAC ) in excess of a specific threshold level , such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % , defines the offense with no need to prove impairment or intoxication .	The most common blood alcohol content ( BAC ) limit in the United States is 0.08 % for the legal meaning of drunk .
The specific criminal offense may be called , depending on the jurisdiction , driving under the influence ( of alcohol or other drugs ) ( DUI ) , driving under intense influence ( DUII ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , `` operating vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs '' ( OVI ) , operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ) , driving under the combined influence of alcohol and\/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge ( of a vehicle ) .	Drunk driving ( Drink driving in the UK and Australia ) is the act of driving a motor vehicle ( car , truck , etc. ) while under the effects of alcohol .
In 2001 it was proposed that Merrick had suffered from a combination of neurofibromatosis type I and Proteus syndrome .	Scientists think that he either had an illness called neurofibromatosis type I , one called Proteus syndrome , or both of these illnesses .
One of his arms and both feet became enlarged and at some point during his childhood he fell and damaged his hip , resulting in permanent lameness .	He was also disabled after he hurt his hip .
In 1991 , Mercury died of bronchopneumonia , a complication of AIDS , and Deacon retired in 1997 .	In 1997 John Deacon retired to spend more time with his family .
Individuals differ in their inherited tendency to develop cancer , and cancer is a genetic disease .	For instance , genetic counselors are professionals who work with families who might be affected by genetic diseases .
When searching for an unknown gene that may be involved in a disease , researchers commonly use genetic linkage and genetic pedigree charts to find the location on the genome associated with the disease .	As part of their job , they create pedigree charts for the family , which can be used to study how the disease might be inherited .
This phenomenon , known as `` Mendel 's second law '' or the `` Law of independent assortment '' , means that the alleles of different genes get shuffled between parents to form offspring with many different combinations .	In fact , the genes Mendel studied occurred in only four linkage groups , and only one gene pair ( out of 21 possible ) is close enough to show deviation from independent assortment ; this is not a pair that Mendel studied .
The importance of Mendel 's work did not gain wide understanding until the 1890s , after his death , when other scientists working on similar problems re-discovered his research .	Mendel 's care towards controlling experiment conditions along with his attention to his numerical results set a standard for future experiments .
The mutation that causes phenylketonuria disrupts the ability of the body to break down the amino acid phenylalanine , causing a toxic build-up of an intermediate molecule that , in turn , causes severe symptoms of progressive mental retardation and seizures .	The person who first did twin studies was Francis Galton , Darwin 's half-cousin , who was a founder of statistics .
Scott suffered serious injuries from the ensuing motorcycle accident , spending three days in a coma and a further 18 days in hospital .	In 1974 he had a motorcycle accident and was in hospital for a few months .
Szasz argued that mental illnesses are not real in the sense that cancers are real .	Szasz did not believe that drug addiction is a disease .
Psychiatry is a pseudo-science that parodies medicine by using medical sounding words invented especially over the last 100 years .	He said that psychiatry is a pseudoscience .
The condition can often be reversed by the electric discharge of direct current from a defibrillator .	Ventricular fibrillation can be stopped by a careful discharge of electrical current from a defibrillator .
Ventricular fibrillation ( V-fib or VF ) is a condition in which there is uncoordinated contraction of the cardiac muscle of the ventricles in the heart , making them quiver rather than contract properly .	Ventricular fibrillation ( often shortened to VF or V-Fib ) is a type of arrhythmia of the heart .
Ventricular fibrillation is a cause of cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death .	The person is in cardiac arrest and will die unless treated .
Therefore , the substrate of ventricular fibrillation is transient or permanent conduction block .	During ventricular fibrillation , the heart is unable to pump blood around the body properly , and there will be loss of oxygen to the body , called hypoxia .
( 11.1 kg ) , a 13 % body mass increase , a cholesterol level of 230 , and experienced mood swings , sexual dysfunction , and fat accumulation in his liver .	During the experiment , Spurlock gained 24 1\/2 lbs. , had a 13 % body mass increase , his cholesterol level went to 230 , and he had mood swings , sexual dysfunction , and had fat accumulation in his liver .
She died seven weeks later , her system unprepared for the different nutritional and environmental conditions on the California mainland .	She died from dysentery seven weeks later .
Note that in Modern Greek the word empathy ( εμπάθεια ) translates as `` hatred '' , `` loathing '' , `` malevolence '' and `` spitefulness '' ( a situation of causing passion , rather than mutual relation to one 's passion ) ; ενσυναίσθηση is the correct modern equivalent of empathy .	Empathy is a word that means that someone is able to share or understand the emotions and feelings of another person .
One diagnostic criterion of narcissistic personality disorder is a lack of empathy and an unwillingness or inability to recognize or identify with the feelings and needs of others .	Lack of empathy is found in various types of mental disorder , such as psychopathy , narcississtic personality disorder and sadistic personality disorder .
Using categories , he offers specific examples of both mild and extreme mind control ( both one on one and in groups ) , notes the conditions under which each social rule is most easily exploited for false ends , and offers suggestions on how to resist such methods .	Some authors have pointed out that the ideas of mind control can be found in all stages of human history .
One day , John Coffey , a giant black man convicted of raping and killing two young white girls , arrives on death row .	Paul Edgecomb ( played by Tom Hanks ) is the head guard on the Green Mile when a new inmate arrives : John Coffey ( played by Michael Clarke Duncan ) , who is to be executed for the murder of two young girls .
In psychology , logorrhea or logorrhoea ( from Ancient Greek λόγος logos and ῥέω rheo `` to flow '' ) is a communication disorder , sometimes classified as a mental illness , resulting in excessive wordiness and sometimes incoherent talkativeness .	Logorrhea is a disorder of speech .
Logorrhea is present in a variety of psychiatric and neurological disorders including aphasia , localized cortical lesions in the thalamus , mania , or most typically in catatonic schizophrenia .	Logorrhea happens in many different psychiatric and neurological conditions .
Logorrhea is a symptom of an underlying illness , and should be treated by a medical professional .	It is a sign of an underlying mental disorder , and needs psychiatric attention .
After marrying , John Naismith worked as a saw hand , but unfortunately , the couple soon contracted typhoid fever and died when Naismith was just 9 years old .	When he was nine , his parents died from typhoid fever .
The study , which included roughly two dozen men between the ages of 21 and 35 , found that the sitting position required to balance a laptop can increase scrotum temperature by as much as 2.1 ° C ( 3.78 ° F ) .	The computer also included a built-in printer .
The visual system carries out a number of complex tasks , including the reception of light and the formation of monocular representations ; the buildup of a binocular perception from a pair of two dimensional projections ; the identification and categorization of visual objects ; assessing distances to and between objects ; and guiding body movements in relation to visual objects .	The visual system has the complex task of ( re ) constructing a three dimensional world from a two dimensional projection of that world .
In cold weather , long underwear is sometimes worn to provide additional warmth .	In countries where the weather is cold , long underwear can be worn to keep warm .
In cold climates , underwear may constitute an additional layer of clothing helping to keep the wearer warm .	They also shape the body and provide support for parts of it , and in cold weather help the wearer to keep warm .
The form of the stored nutrition varies depending on the kind of plant .	Many kinds of seeds are good food for animals and people .
On 27 December , Ian Curtis suffered his first recognisable epileptic episode .	Also in this period lead singer Ian Curtis suffered worsening bouts of illness caused by epilepsy .
MHC molecules mediate interactions of leukocytes , also called white blood cells ( WBCs ) , which are immune cells , with other leukocytes or body cells .	An autoimmune disease occurs when the immune cells do not recognize the MHC molecules of other cells and starts attacking its own body .
The MHC gene family is divided into three subgroups : class I , class II and class III .	It is coded for by a large gene family in all vertebrates .
Occurring on the cell surface , each MHC molecule displays a molecular fraction , called epitope , of a protein .	There are several different genes , so that each person or animal has a set of MHC molecules which bind somewhat different ranges of peptides .
In press interviews , at public speaking events , as well as in her writing , Greenfield has expressed concerns that modern technology , and in particular social networking sites and video games , may have a negative impact on child development , leading to conditions including dementia and autism .	Greenfield frequently lectures about the future of the brain and , in particular , the effect that computers are having in the way we think .
Aluminium hydroxide ( Al ( OH ) 3 ) is used as an antacid , as a mordant , in water purification , in the manufacture of glass and ceramic and in the waterproofing of fabrics .	Aluminium compounds are used in deodorants , water processing plants , food additives , and antacids .
Tajikistan is the only country in world where polio is on the rise .	Tajikistan is a country in South-central Asia .
Nichols was not missing any organs ; Chapman 's uterus was taken ; Eddowes had her uterus and a kidney removed and her face mutilated ; and Kelly 's body was eviscerated and her face hacked away , though only her heart was missing from the crime scene .	Eddowes ' left kidney had been removed by the killer .
However , these proteins only represent a small fraction of the total protein set-up necessary to build and maintain the structure and function of a particular type of plastid .	Examples of plastids are : Plastids are one of the many different types of organelles in the cell .
Skull bossing may be due to a variety of medical conditions such as when a decrease in bone marrow volume leads to depressed intramedullary hematopoiesis .	Skull bossing may happen from different medical conditions .
These studies have shown that evolution can alter development to produce new structures , such as embryonic bone structures that develop into the jaw in other animals instead forming part of the middle ear in mammals .	Evolution has taken place .
Sex usually increases genetic variation and may increase the rate of evolution .	p204 Genetic variation is increased by gene mutations .
After she suffered from bronchopneumonia as a child , her parents were advised it would aid her recovery if they were to live in a warmer climate .	She had bronchopneumonia as a child , and her parents were it would be better in a warmer country .
The conflict has been compared to World War I in terms of the tactics used , including large-scale trench warfare with barbed wire stretched across trenches , manned machine-gun posts , bayonet charges , human wave attacks across a no-man 's land , and extensive use of chemical weapons such as mustard gas by the Iraqi government against Iranian troops , civilians , and Iraqi Kurds .	The Iran-Iraq War is also noted for Iraq 's use of chemical weapons and biological weapons against Iranian troops and civilians , many of which were supplied by the United States .
She died in The Hague on 20 March 1934 , of complications from bronchitis at the age of 75 , and was buried in Delft .	Emma died on 20th March 1934 from the complications of bronchitis .
This act was aimed at bettering working conditions in factories and placed limits on the working hours of women and children .	He made laws that made working conditions better .
In April 2011 , Zeta-Jones sought treatment for bipolar II disorder , checking herself into Silver Hill Hospital in New Canaan , Connecticut .	Zeta-Jones has been diagnosed with bipolar II disorder .
The release of LH matures the egg and weakens the wall of the follicle in the ovary , causing the fully developed follicle to release its secondary oocyte .	The rising levels of LH trigger the ova to mature and later cause the follicle to swell and rupture , releasing the ova into the oviduct ( also called the fallopian tube ) .
The hormone drop causes the uterus to shed its lining and egg in a process termed menstruation .	This drop causes the thick endometrium tissue lining the uterus to be shed .
As they mature , the ovarian follicles secrete increasing amounts of estradiol , and estrogen .	All but one of the follicles will die off ( usually ) and the one left will increase the amount of estrogen released into the blood .
Stimulated by gradually increasing amounts of estrogen in the follicular phase , discharges of blood ( menses ) slow then stop , and the lining of the uterus thickens .	The lining of the uterus will once again begin to thicken due to the increase of estrogen and near the end of the stage levels of estrogen will peak .
During the follicular phase , estradiol suppresses production of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) from the anterior pituitary gland .	The levels of estrogen exert positive feedback on the pituitary gland causing it to release luteinising hormone ( LH ) and for levels of LH to peak .
Occasionally , both ovaries will release an egg ; if both eggs are fertilized , the result is fraternal twins .	If however the ova is fertilized becoming a zygote it will begin dividing through mitosis and it will move from the oviduct into the uterus .
When the egg has nearly matured , levels of estradiol reach a threshold above which this effect is reversed and estrogen stimulates the production of a large amount of LH .	In this case the levels of estrogen and progesterone will remain high and the zygote , which is now an embryo , will implant in the endometrium tissue of the uterus , form a placenta and start to mature .
The developing embryo takes about three days to reach the uterus and another three days to implant into the endometrium .	The cycle will stop if implantation of an embryo in the endometrium tissue of the uterus takes place .
The sudden change in hormones at the time of ovulation sometimes also causes light mid-cycle blood flow .	The peak in LH is needed for ovulation to occur .
A fertilized egg immediately begins the process of embryogenesis , or development .	These hormones prepare the uterus to receive a fertilized egg and control the development of ova .
However in humans it has been shown that high levels of estradiol can provoke abrupt increases in LH , even when GnRH levels and pulse frequencies are held constant , :86 suggesting that estrogen acts directly on the pituitary to provoke the LH surge .	At the start of this stage levels of FSH released by the pituitary gland will begin to rise , this will continue for 3-4 days .
Because Tasmanian devils have extremely low levels of genetic diversity and a chromosomal mutation unique among carnivorous mammals , they are more prone to the infectious cancer .	Because the devils are all closely related ( not enough genetic diversity ) , the tumor cells are not seen as new ; so the devil 's immune system does not fight it .
Some studies have tried to establish a link between biological variables and transgender or transsexual identity , but such studies have been limited and their findings largely uncertain .	Some transgender or transsexual people do not think they have an illness or disease .
Numerous conditions and variations that have their basis in the prenatal stage can ultimately affect one 's gender identity .	If someone has a male gender identity they wish to be seen and be treated as male . )
For example , gender identity disorder in children is specific to children who experience gender dysphoria .	Doctors may diagnose by psychiatry this person with Gender identity disorder .
Females usually have two Xs : so each egg they produce contains one X. Males usually have one X and one Y chromosome , so that each individual sperm can have either an X or a Y chromosome .	A person may be biologically female ( have a vagina and an XX sex chromosome ) but have a male gender identity .
At the age of 78 , Pran suffered a heart attack in 1998 , after which he started rejecting film offers due to age-related problems .	Pran 's first time to be admitted to a hospital was in 1998 after he suffered a heart attack .
He died on 12 July 2013 at the age of 93 after a prolonged illness in Mumbai 's Lilavati Hospital .	Pran died on 12 July 2013 in Mumbai , Maharashtra , India from pneumonia , aged 93 .
Hippocrates and the beliefs that he embodied are considered medical ideals .	He said many ideas that doctors still study .
He is referred to as the father of western medicine in recognition of his lasting contributions to the field as the founder of the Hippocratic School of Medicine .	This is used today at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine .
Priests believed that an illness such as epilepsy was caused by the gods .	People used to believe disease was caused by angry ( mad ) gods .
After a protracted illness , he died at home in Paris of a heart attack on 27 November 1955 and was interred in the Saint-Vincent Cemetery in the Montmartre Quarter .	A second heart attack killed him eight years later .
Hormonal signaling involves the following : Hormone cells are typically of a specialized cell type , residing within a particular endocrine gland , such as thyroid gland , ovaries , and testes .	So endocrine glands form hormones and release them into the blood or tissue .
A hormone ( from Greek ὁρμή , `` impetus '' ) is a class of regulatory biochemicals that is produced in all multicellular organisms by glands , and transported by the circulatory system to a distant target organ to coordinate its physiology and behavior .	Insulin is produced by the pancreas .
In higher organisms the eye is a complex optical system which collects light from the surrounding environment , regulates its intensity through a diaphragm , focuses it through an adjustable assembly of lenses to form an image , converts this image into a set of electrical signals , and transmits these signals to the brain through complex neural pathways that connect the eye via the optic nerve to the visual cortex and other areas of the brain .	In mammals , two kinds of cells , rods and cones , allow sight by sending signals through the optic nerve to the brain .
The related vegan diets can often be higher in iron than vegetarian diets , because dairy products are low in iron .	Mahatma Gandhi said that spiritual experiences are greatly enhanced on a vegetarian diet .
The upper frequency limit in humans ( approximately 20 kHz ) is due to limitations of the middle ear .	This frequency limit is caused by the middle ear that acts as a low-pass filter .
There is currently no effective treatment or cure for akinetopsia .	There is currently no treatment for this condition .
Patients with akinetopsia struggle with many issues in their day-to-day life , depending on the severity of their condition .	Patients with akinetopsia have problems with many tasks in their daily life .
Akinetopsia , also known as cerebral akinetopsia or motion blindness , is an extremely rare neuropsychological disorder in which a patient can not perceive motion in their visual field , despite being able to see stationary objects without issue .	Motion blindness ( also called Akinetopsia ) is a medical condition where a person can not see objects that are moving even though they can see the objects that do not move .
The muscular system is one component of the musculoskeletal system , which includes not only the muscles but also the bones , joints , tendons , and other structures that permit movement .	It takes a lot of energy to release contracted muscles .
Her sister-in-law , Empress Maria Josepha , died from smallpox and also passed it on to Maria Theresa , who survived but suffered from its effects the rest of her life .	Then Maria Teresa took her daughter Josepha , who was about to begin her bridal journey to Naples , to go to the tomb of Joseph 's wife to pray .
Vitamin B was originally considered to have two components , a heat-labile vitamin B1 and a heat-stable vitamin B2 .	Riboflavin is one of the B vitamins ( vitamin B2 ) .
However , riboflavin deficiency is always accompanied by deficiency of other vitamins .	When there is too little riboflavin in the food , it causes what people call a primary riboflavin deficiency .
Angular cheilitis , photophobia , and scrotal dermatitis are the classic remembered signs .	When all these three things go wrong , angular cheilitis , photophobia , and sore , itchy skin on the private parts , doctors call it the oral-ocular-genital syndrome .
Riboflavin deficiency is classically associated with the oral-ocular-genital syndrome .	We can tell that the body does not lose all its riboflavin easily because riboflavin deficiency does not cause illness all at once .
A deficiency may also cause dry and scaling skin , fluid in the mucous membranes , and iron-deficiency anemia .	A riboflavin deficiency also can cause dry , scaly skin that cracks easily , and itchy , painful private parts .
Riboflavin is continuously excreted in the urine of healthy individuals , making deficiency relatively common when dietary intake is insufficient .	The kidneys pass riboflavin out in the urine , so when there is too much riboflavin in the body , the part that one does not want will not stay in the blood for long .
These overt clinical signs of riboflavin deficiency are rarely seen among inhabitants of the developed countries .	They might have quite such bad signs of riboflavin deficiency , but still have what we call `` sub-clinical '' symptoms , not bad enough to send them to hospital , but bad enough to make them unhealthy and to stop children from growing properly and becoming healthy .
A deficiency of riboflavin can be primary - poor vitamin sources in one 's daily diet - or secondary , which may be a result of conditions that affect absorption in the intestine , the body not being able to use the vitamin , or an increase in the excretion of the vitamin from the body .	Some people who have something wrong with their guts get what people call a secondary riboflavin deficiency : even if there is plenty of riboflavin in the food , the sick gut can not get it out of the food and pass it on to the blood .
In 1933 , Kuhn , Gyorgy , and Wagner found that thiamin-free extracts of yeast , liver , or rice bran prevented the growth failure of rats fed a thiamin-supplemented diet .	The B and C vitamins are the vitamins that dissolve in water .
The conditions necessary for a language to arise occurred in 1977 , when a center for special education established a program initially attended by 50 young deaf children .	At first , fifty children took part .
Natural behaviors may be thought of as those behaviors generated through means of natural selection ( i.e. finding mates , navigation , locomotion , predator avoidance ) rather than behaviors in disease states , or behavioral tasks that are particular to the laboratory .	Natural behaviors of animals were created by natural selection ( e.g. , finding mates , moving , avoiding enemies ) .
This can be due to any number of factors , including improved nutrition resulting in rapid body growth , increased weight and fat deposition , or exposure to endocrine disruptors such as xenoestrogens , which can at times be due to food consumption or other environmental factors .	This can be due to improved nutrition resulting in rapid body growth , increased weight and fat deposition , or eating meat from animals which have been dosed up with estrogen .
Testicular size reaches maximal adult size about 6 years after the onset of puberty .	About six years after puberty starts , the testicles reach their adult size .
This muscle develops mainly during the later stages of puberty , and muscle growth can continue even after boys are biologically adult .	The penis also grows bigger during puberty .
The time between menstrual periods ( menses ) is not always regular in the first two years after menarche .	For about two years after menstruation starts , the time between periods is not always the same .
This change increases the susceptibility to acne , a skin condition that is characteristic of puberty .	This causes a skin problem called acne .
Ovulation is necessary for fertility , but may or may not accompany the earliest menses .	This is called menstruation or having a period .
Estradiol in girls causes thickening of lips and oral mucosa as well as further development of the vulva .	Hormones are made by glands in the body .
Before puberty , the larynx of boys and girls is about equally small .	The uterus is the organ in which a baby grows .
For boys , an androgen called testosterone is the principal sex hormone .	Testosterone also makes a man feel like having sex .
Testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty , averaging about 2-3 cm in length and about 1.5-2 cm in width .	At the start of puberty , the average length of the penis is 6 cm ( 2.4 in ) .
As in girls , another androgen effect is increased secretion of oil ( sebum ) from the skin and the resultant variable amounts of acne .	The hormones also cause the skin to produce more sebum ( oil ) , which usually leads to acne .
The pubic hairs are usually first visible at the dorsal ( abdominal ) base of the penis .	Within three to four years after puberty begins , there is a lot of pubic hair in the area above the penis .
Another androgen effect is increased secretion of oil ( sebum ) from the skin .	Oil glands on scalp - the part of the head on which hair grows - also make a lot of sebum .
Early puberty in girls can be a harbinger of later health problems .	Puberty in boys starts off more slowly than in girls , but then speeds up later on .
Girls attain reproductive maturity about 4 years after the first physical changes of puberty appear .	The penis reaches adult size about five years later .
A common definition for the onset of puberty is physical changes to a person 's body .	This is the general picture , but people round the world may start puberty at different ages .
On average , potential fertility in boys is reached at 13 years old , but full fertility will not be gained until 14-16 years of age .	Boys usually only become fully fertile when they reach about 14 to 16 years of age .
In the vulva and vagina estradiol causes thickening ( stratification ) of the skin , growth of the myopethelial layer and smooth muscle of the vagina .	The opening of the vagina is inside the vulva , in between the legs .
In the two years following thelarche , the uterus , ovaries , and the follicles in the ovaries increase in size .	Then , about two years after the breasts start to grow , when a girl is between ten and 16 years old ( on average , at 13 to 14 years ) , hormones made by her ovaries cause the ovaries to release an ovum , which moves into the uterus .
Sophie was born a very large baby : une très grosse fille but her fragile health was undermined by tuberculosis .	Her health was undermined by tuberculosis .
Robbins died a few weeks before the release of the film in December 1982 of complications following cardiac surgery .	Marty Robbins died of heart failure in December 1982 .
After suffering from various illnesses for several years , Brezhnev died on 10 November 1982 and was quickly succeeded in his post as General Secretary by Yuri Andropov .	Brezhnev died of a heart attack on November 10 , 1982 .
Aristotle considers nutrition first of the individual faculties of the soul , for two related reasons .	Christians believe that the soul is the ` breath of life ' which God gave to Adam .
Spots are most abundant on the thighs and legs , and a person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .	A person with scurvy will look pale and feel sad ( see depression ) .
The belief that scurvy was fundamentally a nutritional deficiency , best treated by consumption of fresh food , particularly fresh citrus or fresh meat , was not universal in Britain in the 19th and early 20th centuries , and thus British sailors and explorers continued to suffer from scurvy into the 20th century .	In the past , sailors used to get scurvy because fresh fruit and meat could not be kept for as long as they were at sea .
Scurvy or subclinical scurvy is caused by the lack of vitamin C. In modern Western societies , scurvy is rarely present in adults , although infants and elderly people are affected .	Scurvy is a disease caused by not eating enough vitamin C. People who have scurvy get spots on their skin , especially at the legs .
Scurvy is one of the accompanying diseases of malnutrition ( other such micronutrient deficiencies are beriberi or pellagra ) and thus is still widespread in areas of the world depending on external food aid .	Not many people get scurvy now in rich countries .
However , it was not until 1747 that James Lind formally proved that scurvy could be treated and prevented by supplementing the diet with citrus fruit , though not by other acids , in the first ever clinical trial .	In 1747 , James Lind discovered that this was the main cause of scurvy .
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .	The following is the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of Sciences , National Research Council 's advice on how much vitamin C to eat every day : Foods with a lot of vitamin C include the following :
This discovery of a `` clean '' ( reliable ) animal experimental model for scurvy , which was made even before the essential idea of `` vitamins '' in foods had been put forward , has been called the single most important piece of vitamin C research .	At first , a person with scurvy may : A bit later a person with scurvy may : When a person gets help for scurvy , they usually get better very quickly .
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy , followed by formation of spots on the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .	They may bleed from the mouth , nose , and gums ( mucous membranes ) .
Beuys died of heart failure on 23 January 1986 , in Düsseldorf , after a long illness .	He died in 1986 in Düsseldorf .
The time frame between injection of parasite inside human and development of first symptoms of malaria is its intrinsic incubation period .	After the incubation period , the disease symptoms appear ( which in the case of HIV , AIDS will occur and cause death ) .
For many conditions , incubation periods are longer in adults than they are in children or infants .	For most infections , the body 's immune system will not `` gear up '' or `` kick in '' until late in the incubation period .
In a typical infectious disease , incubation period signifies the period taken by the multiplying organism to reach a threshold necessary to produce symptoms in host .	For HIV , this incubation period can be many months , during which the victim will have no symptoms of infection ( but can still infect other people ) .
Tobacco use leads most commonly to diseases affecting the heart , liver and lungs , with smoking being a major risk factor for heart attacks , strokes , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) ( including emphysema and chronic bronchitis ) , and cancer ( particularly lung cancer , cancers of the larynx and mouth , and pancreatic cancer ) .	Tobacco users ( especially smokers ) risk many very serious and often deadly illnesses , such as cancer , strokes , heart disease , and lung disease .
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , tobacco is the single greatest cause of preventable death globally .	The United States ' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describes tobacco use as `` the single most important preventable risk to human health in developed countries and an important cause of premature ( early ) death worldwide '' .
Two leading hypotheses suggest it may have jumped species from the disease scrapie in sheep , or that it evolved from a spontaneous form of `` mad cow disease '' that has been seen occasionally in cattle for many centuries .	Mad cow disease has damaged the cattle industry .
In the United Kingdom , the country worst affected , more than 180,000 cattle have been infected and 4.4 million slaughtered during the eradication program .	In England , the nation that was worst affected , more than 179,000 cattle were infected and 4.4 million were killed in an attempt to get rid of the disease .
Prion proteins carry the disease between individuals and cause deterioration of the brain .	When cattle get this disease , they have holes forming in their brains .
An estimated 400,000 cattle infected with BSE entered the human food chain in the 1980s .	Some food was made from cattle that had the disease .
After the discovery of the first case of BSE in the US on 23 December 2003 , Japan halted US beef imports .	It 's a disease that affects a cow 's nervous system and their physical state .
Tokyo yielded to US pressure to resume imports , ignoring consumer worries about the safety of US beef , said Japanese consumer groups .	In 2012 , Korean President Lee 's negotiations about the import of beef from the USA made the public angry .
She developed pneumonia and died just 26 days after leaving the White House , on March 30 , 1853 , at the Willard Hotel in Washington , D.C. , the shortest post-Presidential life of any former first lady .	On 30th March , 1853 , she died of pneumonia .
A second hypothesis in this category is that the individuals were born without a functioning thyroid , resulting in a type of endemic cretinism ( myxoedematous , ME ) .	Another study says that perhaps the individuals were born without a working thyroid ( a hormone gland ) , which would result in the small size of the hominins because of a disorder called Myxedema , ME .
The frontal and temporal lobes of the floresiensis brain were found to be highly developed , in strong contrast to the microcephalic brain , and advanced in ways different from modern human brains .	This is a disorder that causes the bones of the head to stop growing .
First , the mood swings of BPD and bipolar disorder tend to have different durations .	People diagnosed with BPD have strong mood swings .
The many and shifting Axis I disorders in people with BPD can sometimes cause clinicians to miss the presence of the underlying personality disorder .	If the person has five or more of the following signs , the DSM-IV-TR says that they have BPD .
Six flight attendants received physical and emotional treatment .	One flight attendant said that many of the Chinese passengers , at first , could not understand the instructions to evacuate because of a language barrier .
Of the 307 people aboard , two passengers died at the crash scene ( one from being run over by an airport crash tender ) , and a third died in a hospital several days later .	A second passenger also died , but it is possible that she survived the crash and was run over by a fire truck .
Vaccines against microorganisms that cause diseases can prepare the body 's immune system , thus helping to fight or prevent an infection .	The body 's ability to fight off a disease is called its immune system .
Immunization is done through various techniques , most commonly vaccination .	Immunization is the same as inoculation and vaccination because inoculation and vaccination use an infecting agent ( something that infects ) in the same way that immunization does .
Immunization can be achieved in an active or passive manner : vaccination is an active form of immunization .	Immunization is a way of preventing a person from getting a disease .
Generally , blond hair in Europeans is associated with lighter eye color ( gray , blue , green and hazel ) .	A blonde person is someone with light colored hair .
The pigmentation of both hair and eyes is lightest around the Baltic Sea , and darkness increases regularly and almost concentrically around this region with countries such as England , Sweden , Scotland , Norway , Germany , Denmark , the Netherlands , Finland , Ukraine , Poland , Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Russia , etc. generally having larger proportions of blond people than countries further south in Europe .	Natural blondes are most common around the Baltic Sea , especially the Nordic countries such as Sweden , Norway , Denmark , Iceland , and Finland and Ireland also has a number of natural blondes .
It also is used to break up kidney stones and gall stones , and was reportedly used as an antidote for both snake and scorpion venom .	It has been used to break up kidney and gall stones , and as an antidote against the poison of certain snake bites .
It has been said that the possibility of suicide makes all humans existentialists .	Nihilists believe that human life does not have a meaning ( or a purpose ) at all ; existentialism says that people must choose their own purpose .
Amino acids are under development as components of a range of biodegradable polymers .	Every protein has its own sequence of amino acids , and that sequence makes the protein take different shapes , and have different functions .
In some cases , low visual acuity is caused by brain damage , such as from traumatic brain injury or stroke .	Some people may suffer from other visual problems , such as color blindness , reduced contrast , or inability to track fast-moving objects and still have normal visual acuity .
In terms of medications , paracetamol or NSAIDs , such as ibuprofen , may be used to reduce fever and pain .	Paracetamol and NSAIDs ( non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ) can be used to ease the flu like symptoms .
Suárez then died as a result of a respiratory infection on Sunday , 23 March 2014 .	He died from a respiratory infection in Madrid , aged 81 .
Some with such breeding habits are disproportionately important vectors because they are well-placed to pick up pathogens from humans and pass them on .	Mosquitoes are a vector ( carrier ) which carries disease-causing viruses and parasites from person to person .
Child pornography may use a variety of media , including writings , magazines , photos , sculpture , drawing , cartoon , painting , animation , sound recording , film , video , and video games .	It is usually graphic material in the form of drawings , photographs or video , but can be in writing as well .
Drawings or animations that depict sexual acts involving children but are not intended to look like photographs may also be considered by some to be child pornography .	For practical reasons , the way the law describes child pornography generally refer to a wider age range , including any pornography involving a minor , according to where the law applies .
The Truman Show delusion , informally known as Truman Syndrome , is a type of persecutory\/grandiose delusion in which patients believe their lives are staged plays or reality television shows .	The Truman Show delusion is a delusion some people have .
In one of the few interviews Curly gave in his lifetime , he complained about the loss of his hair : `` I had to shave it off right down to the skin . ''	He had to shave his mustache and shave his hair to join the group .
The high rate of suicide has led officials to place signs in the forest , in Japanese and English , urging suicidal visitors to seek help and not kill themselves .	There are signs located in the forest in both Japanese and English that urge people not to commit suicide .
The forest has a historic association with demons in Japanese mythology and is a popular place for suicides ( 54 in 2010 ) despite numerous signs , in Japanese and English , urging people to reconsider their actions .	Demons in Japanese mythology are associated with the forest .
While crows and jays are often the first noticed deaths in an area with West Nile virus , the American Robin is suspected to be a key host , and holds a larger responsibility for the transmission of the virus to humans .	The American Robin is large songbird .
Autopoiesis was originally presented as a system description that was said to define and explain the nature of living systems .	Autopoiesis was a modern definition for life , plus any other systems with life-like properties .
In a 2006 annual global report on human trafficking , the State Department said that Armenia is a `` major source and , to a lesser extent , a transit and destination country for women and girls trafficked for sexual exploitation largely to the United Arab Emirates and Turkey . ''	Women and girls are usually sold to buyers in the United Arab Emirates and Turkey . ''
In June 2011 , Campbell announced he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease six months earlier .	Campbell discovered in late 2010 that he was suffering from Alzheimer 's disease , and announced the diagnosis in June 2011 .
Genes , Brain and Behavior is abstracted and indexed in : The journal publishes the following types of articles : According to the Web of Science , the following three articles have been cited most often ( ) 180 times ) :	The journal publishes these types of articles :
Frequent and regular physical exercise boosts the immune system , and helps prevent the `` diseases of affluence '' such as heart disease , cardiovascular disease , Type 2 diabetes and obesity .	Regular exercise has been shown to help high blood pressure , obesity , heart disease , diabetes , and depression , among others .
The detailed design was by Lewis Cubitt , and construction was in 1851-1852 on the site of a fever and smallpox hospital .	A detailed design was made by Lewis Cubitt .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol , brain congestion , cholera , drugs , heart disease , rabies , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .	Though it is not known what was his cause of death , there are several possible theories , including congestion of the brain , alcohol withdrawal , tuberculosis , and rabies .
A medical condition of poisoning can also be caused by substances that are not legally required to carry the label `` poison '' .	A gas chamber is a facility used to intentionally cause a gas poisoning and death .
Some poisons are also toxins , usually referring to naturally produced substances , such as the bacterial proteins that cause tetanus and botulism .	It is also used as a drug , In high doses , Atropine is a poison .
Exposure to radioactive substances can produce radiation poisoning , an unrelated phenomenon .	This effect is called intoxication .
Excimer lasers typically operate at ultraviolet wavelengths with major applicatons including semiconductor photolithography and LASIK eye surgery .	Lasers are used in medicine , particularly in LASIK eye surgery , where the laser is used to repair the shape of the cornea .
Xanthan gum may be derived from a variety of source products that are themselves common allergens , such as corn , wheat , dairy , or soy .	Some types of xanthan gum are made with wheat , corn or soy and could cause allergic reactions .
Van Beinum served as sole chief conductor of the orchestra after World War II until his sudden death on the Concertgebouw podium from a fatal heart attack in April 1959 .	Van Beinum conducted the orchestra until April 1959 when he suddenly had a heart attack and died during a rehearsal .
In 1932 , her mother died from a heart attack .	In 1932 , Fitzgerald 's mother died .
In 1993 , she had to have both of her legs amputated below the knee due to the effects of diabetes .	Her diabetes worsened , and both legs were cut off ( amputated ) below the knees .
Her eyesight was affected as well .	She had diabetes , which accounted for her failing eyesight .
Plagued by health problems , Fitzgerald made her last recording in 1991 and her last public performances in 1993 .	In 1991 , she gave her final concert at Carnegie Hall .
Sinusoidal hepatic endothelial cells , Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells are some of the non-parenchymal cells that line the liver sinusoid .	When red blood cells die , the hemoglobin in them leaks into the blood .
The liver is necessary for survival ; there is currently no way to compensate for the absence of liver function in the long term , although new liver dialysis techniques can be used in the short term .	The liver does many important things in the body : There are many different liver diseases .
The liver is a reddish brown organ with four lobes of unequal size and shape .	So yellow eyes and yellow skin are symptoms of liver disease .
A major study published more recently in Nature Nanotechnology suggests some forms of carbon nanotubes - a poster child for the `` nanotechnology revolution '' - could be as harmful as asbestos if inhaled in sufficient quantities .	Few predictions suggest these materials could be harmful to human health ; it could affect natural systems on earth .
Filling the interior of the bone is the trabecular bone tissue ( an open cell porous network also called cancellous or spongy bone ) , which is composed of a network of rod - and plate-like elements that make the overall organ lighter and allow room for blood vessels and marrow .	The red bone marrow in the middle of the bigger bones is what makes the red blood cells that we need .
Other types of tissue found in bones include marrow , endosteum , periosteum , nerves , blood vessels and cartilage .	Our body is made of flesh and blood built on a framework of bones .
The amino acid composition of collagen is atypical for proteins , particularly with respect to its high hydroxyproline content .	It makes up about 25 % to 35 % of the whole-body protein content .
Élisabeth fell ill while she was at Versailles , and died of smallpox on 6 December 1759 .	While back at Versailles , Louise Élisabeth died of smallpox .
Pectus excavatum also occurs in about 1 % of persons diagnosed with Celiac disease for unknown reasons .	Pectus excavatum happens in about 1 in every 300-400 children with the majority of cases being male .
Approximately 37 % of individuals with pectus excavatum have a first degree family member with the condition .	Whilst Pectus Excavatum occurs at birth , it often does not develop properly until early adolescence when growth is more rapid .
He died of complications from diabetes on December 4 , 1912 , less than eight months after the sinking .	Gracie died on December 4 , 1912 from diabetes in New York City , New York , aged 53 .
In the spring of 1852 , illness that was to become more common as his life progressed struck ; rheumatic fever left him in so much pain that he could not walk .	In 1852 , when Morgan was 15 years old , he had rheumatic fever .
Symptoms may include : sweating , malaise , anxiety , depression , akathisia , priapism , extra sensitivity of the genitals in females , general feeling of heaviness , excessive yawning or sneezing , tears , rhinorrhea , sleep difficulties ( insomnia ) , cold sweats , chills , severe muscle and bone aches , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , cramps , watery eyes , fever and cramp-like pains and involuntary spasms in the limbs ( thought to be an origin of the term `` kicking the habit '' ) .	Physical symptoms often include bad body aches , hot and cold sweats , chills , restlessness , diarrhea , and problems with eating and sleeping .
Intravenous users can use a various single dose range using a hypodermic needle .	A person can get infections by using a needle that has not been cleaned properly .
As with the injection of any drug , if a group of users share a common needle without sterilization procedures , blood-borne diseases , such as HIV or hepatitis , can be transmitted .	Also , if people share the same needle , they can infect each other with diseases that travel in the blood , like HIV or hepatitis C. People can also get diseases by having unsafe sex while they are high on heroin .
In November 2012 , Travis was arrested by officers from Operation Yewtree on suspicion of historic sexual offences , which he denied .	Travis was arrested on 15 November 2012 as part of Operation Yewtree , an investigation into sexual abuse by Jimmy Savile and other people .
In October 2010 , Buena confirmed she was no longer interested in a career in the music industry and that she is currently training to become a psychologist for children .	In 2010 Buena said that she did not want to be a musician anymore and that she was training to become a child psychologist .
She later canceled the last twenty-one dates on a tour in support of her album due to `` personal family problems '' .	She had obsessive-compulsive disorder .
Lack of clean water combined with human sewage in the flood waters raises the risk of waterborne diseases , which can include typhoid , giardia , cryptosporidium , cholera and many other diseases depending upon the location of the flood .	If people drink the dirty water , they may suffer from illnesses or diseases such as typhoid and cholera .
Systemic circulation is the circulation of the blood to all parts of the body except the lungs .	Then the blood goes to the systemic circulation again .
Oxygen deprived blood from the superior and inferior vena cava , enters the right atrium of the heart and flows through the tricuspid valve ( right atrioventricular valve ) into the right ventricle , from which it is then pumped through the pulmonary semilunar valve into the pulmonary artery to the lungs .	The inferior vena cava takes blood from the lower part of the body to the right side of the heart .
The pulmonary circulatory system is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart , via the pulmonary artery , to the lungs and returned , oxygenated , to the heart via the pulmonary vein .	The pulmonary veins take blood to the left side of the heart .
The essential components of the human cardiovascular system are the heart , blood , and blood vessels .	The heart and all blood vessels make up the circulatory system .
Blood is a fluid consisting of plasma , red blood cells , white blood cells , and platelets that is circulated by the heart through the vertebrate vascular system , carrying oxygen and nutrients to and waste materials away from all body tissues .	This blood brings the oxygen and nutrients to your body .
In contrast , oxygen and nutrients diffuse across the blood vessel layers and enter interstitial fluid , which carries oxygen and nutrients to the target cells , and carbon dioxide and wastes in the opposite direction .	The blood also picks up carbon dioxide and waste from the tissue .
The lymph , lymph nodes , and lymph vessels form the lymphatic system , which returns filtered blood plasma from the interstitial fluid ( between cells ) as lymph .	Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries .
Systemic circulation is the portion of the cardiovascular system which transports oxygenated blood away from the heart through the aorta from the left ventricle where the blood has been previously deposited from pulmonary circulation , to the rest of the body , and returns oxygen-depleted blood back to the heart .	In the systemic circulation blood drops off oxygen and picks up carbon dioxide . )
While humans , as well as other vertebrates , have a closed cardiovascular system ( meaning that the blood never leaves the network of arteries , veins and capillaries ) , some invertebrate groups have an open cardiovascular system .	Capillaries go between arteries and veins .
The circulatory system is an organ system that permits blood and lymph circulation to transport nutrients ( such as amino acids and electrolytes ) , oxygen , carbon dioxide , hormones , blood cells , etc. to and from cells in the body to nourish it and help to fight diseases , stabilize body temperature and pH , and to maintain homeostasis .	It also drops off carbon dioxide .
However , the following applies to mammals generally and birds ( in modified form ) : The retina in these more complex animals sends fibers ( the optic nerve ) to the lateral geniculate nucleus , to the primary and secondary visual cortex of the brain .	The optic nerve is a bundle of nerve fibers from all over the retina .
The resulting perception is also known as eyesight , sight , or vision ( adjectival form : visual , optical , or ocular ) .	Sight ( also called eyesight or vision ) is one of the senses .
Signs and symptoms are similar to a bladder infection .	Sometimes a person who had a bladder infection will get a kidney infection .
Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate ( or both ) , while those of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI .	Symptoms from a lower urinary tract infection include painful peeing and either frequent peeing or wanting to pee ( or both ) .
Antibiotics following short term urinary catheterization decreases the subsequent risk of a bladder infection .	The risk of an infection can be decreased by : Bladder infections are more common in some families .
The risk of bacteriuria ( bacteria in the urine ) is between three to six percent per day and prophylactic antibiotics are not effective in decreasing symptomatic infections .	The risk of bacteriuria ( bacteria in the urine ) is 3 % - 6 % every day the catheter is used .
The presentations may be vague with incontinence , a change in mental status , or fatigue as the only symptoms , while some present to a health care provider with sepsis , an infection of the blood , as the first symptoms .	The first symptom for some old people is sepsis , an infection of the blood .
If a urinary tract infection involves the upper tract , and the person has diabetes mellitus , is pregnant , is male , or immunocompromised , it is considered complicated .	People who have complicated urinary tract infections sometimes have to take antibiotics for a longer time , or might take antibiotics intravenously ( through the veins ) .
In those who have bacteria or white blood cells in their urine but have no symptoms , antibiotics are generally not needed .	Nitrofurantoin needs 5-7 days .
Pyelonephritis , if it occurs , usually follows a bladder infection but may also result from a blood-borne infection .	Kidney infection also can be caused by bacteria in the blood .
Persons with spinal cord injury are at increased risk for urinary tract infection in part because of chronic use of catheter , and in part because of voiding dysfunction .	Ten percent of women develop urinary tract infections yearly .
Diagnosis can be complicated by the fact that many elderly people have preexisting incontinence or dementia .	Diagnosis can be difficult because many old people are incontinent ( can not hold their pee ) or have dementia ( poor thinking abilities ) .
Its cause is not entirely clear ; however , may be linked to food allergies , infections , and medications among others .	Complicating factors are not completely clear .
The ending - ing is an old Germanic suffix indicating the people belonging to the root word to which it is attached , thus Fucking means '' ( place of ) Focko 's people . ''	In old Germanic , '' - ing '' is used to describe people as belonging to their leader ; so `` Fucking '' means '' ( place of ) Fuko 's people . ''
Five months later , King died of respiratory failure due to complications from ovarian cancer .	She died on January 30 , 2006 in the hospital from a stroke and respiratory failure , aged 78 .
Psychoactive substances often bring about subjective ( although these may be objectively observed ) changes in consciousness and mood that the user may find pleasant ( e.g. euphoria ) or advantageous ( e.g. increased alertness ) and are thus reinforcing .	Psychoactive substances change the consciousness and mood of their user .
Juan Crisóstomo de Arriaga died in Paris ten days before his twentieth birthday , of a lung ailment ( possibly tuberculosis ) , or exhaustion , perhaps both .	Arriaga died in Paris at the age of nineteen , probably of a lung disease and exhaustion .
As the first major rock star to die of AIDS , Mercury 's death represented a very important event in the disease 's history .	Mary still lives in that house and allows fans to visit the house on the day of Mercury 's death each year .
This low risk remains as there is a period of about 11-70 days between the potential blood donor 's acquiring hepatitis C and the blood 's testing positive depending on the method .	The reason that there is still a low risk , instead of no risk at all , is that a person 's blood does not test positive for the Hepatitis C virus until about 11-70 days after they get the disease .
Vertical transmission of hepatitis C from an infected mother to her child occurs in less than 10 % of pregnancies .	Hepatitis C leads to cirrhosis in 10-30 % ( between 10 and 30 out of every 100 ) of people who have been infected over 30 years .
Chronic infection after several years may cause cirrhosis or liver cancer .	Many years of infection may cause cirrhosis .
Symptoms are generally mild and vague , including a decreased appetite , fatigue , nausea , muscle or joint pains , and weight loss and rarely does acute liver failure result .	More often , infected people have symptoms that are mild ( not serious ) and vague ( not very specific ) , like a decreased appetite ( not feeling like eating ) , fatigue ( feeling tired ) , nausea ( feeling like throwing up ) , pain in the muscles or joints , and losing weight .
IDU is a major risk factor for hepatitis C in many parts of the world .	In many parts of the world , intravenous ( IV ) drug use ( shooting drugs into a vein using a needle ) is a major risk factor for Hepatitis C ( meaning that it makes people more likely to get the disease ) .
Persons who have been infected with hepatitis C may appear to clear the virus but remain infected .	But in people who have been infected for many years , Hepatitis C can cause serious problems , like cirrhosis and liver cancer .
Cirrhosis is more common in those also infected with hepatitis B , schistosoma , or HIV , in alcoholics and in those of male gender .	People with Hepatitis C are more likely to get cirrhosis if they are men ; if they are alcoholics ; or if they also have Hepatitis B or HIV .
In some cases , those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure , liver cancer , or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .	Sometimes , people with cirrhosis also have liver failure or liver cancer .
An estimated 150-200 million people worldwide are infected with hepatitis C. The existence of hepatitis C ( originally identifiable only as a type of non-A non-B hepatitis ) was suggested in the 1970s and proven in 1989 .	Around the world , about 130-170 million people have Hepatitis C. Scientists began studying the Hepatitis C virus in the 1970s , and in 1989 they proved that the virus exists .
Liver cirrhosis may lead to portal hypertension , ascites ( accumulation of fluid in the abdomen ) , easy bruising or bleeding , varices ( enlarged veins , especially in the stomach and esophagus ) , jaundice , and a syndrome of cognitive impairment known as hepatic encephalopathy .	Some of these symptoms are high blood pressure in the veins that travel to the liver ; a buildup of fluid in the abdomen , called ascites ; easy bruising or bleeding ; veins becoming larger than normal , especially in the stomach and esophagus ; jaundice ( a yellowing of the skin ) ; and brain damage .
About 80 % of those exposed to the virus develop a chronic infection .	Eighty percent ( or 8 out of every 10 ) of people exposed to the Hepatitis C virus get a chronic infection ( one that does not get better and lasts for a long time ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis , which is generally apparent after many years .	However , chronic infection can scar the liver .
Blood transfusion , transfusion of blood products , or organ transplants without HCV screening carry significant risks of infection .	Peoples are at risk for getting Hepatitis C if they get blood transfusions ( where a person is given blood from another person ) , blood products ( which have blood or parts of blood in them ) , or organ transplants ( where a person who needs a new organ is given an organ from another person ) , if these things have not been screened ( or tested ) for the Hepatitis C virus .
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous drug use , poorly sterilized medical equipment , and transfusions .	The most common ways that this happens are through intravenous drug use ( when a person shoots drugs into one of their veins , with a needle that was already used by a person infected with Hepatitis C ) ; nonsterile medical equipment ( medical tools that were not cleaned well enough after being used on an infected person ) ; and blood transfusions ( when a person is given blood that came from an infected person ) .
In those with hepatitis C , excess alcohol increases the risk of developing cirrhosis 100-fold .	Often , a person with Hepatitis C does not have any symptoms ( health problems or signs that he has the disease ) .
Sexual practices that involve higher levels of trauma to the anogenital mucosa , such as anal penetrative sex , or that occur when there is a concurrent sexually transmitted infection , including HIV or genital ulceration , do present a risk .	There does seem to be a risk of Hepatitis C spreading if one person already has a sexually transmitted infection , like HIV or genital ulceration ; or if two people have sex in a way that causes wounds to the lining of the anal canal ( like anal penetration - one person putting his penis into another person 's anus ) .
Worldwide hepatitis C is the cause of 27 % of cirrhosis cases and 25 % of hepatocellular carcinoma .	Among people in general , 27 % of all cases of cirrhosis , and 25 % of all cases of liver cancer , are caused by Hepatitis C. Cirrhosis of the liver can cause many different symptoms .
A form of infection with persistently moderately elevated serum liver enzymes but without antibodies to hepatitis C has also been reported .	Hepatitis C is an infection that mostly affects the liver .
This decreased the risk from one in 200 units to between one in 10,000 to one in 10,000,000 per unit of blood .	Before then , about one out of every 200 units of blood carried the Hepatitis C virus ; since 1992 , only one in 10,000 to 10,000,000 units of blood carry the virus .
One barrier to finding treatments for hepatitis C is the lack of a suitable animal model .	In the developing world , most people get Hepatitis C through blood transfusions ( being given blood that was taken from a person with Hepatitis C ) or by getting medical care with tools that were not cleaned enough after being used on a person with Hepatitis C. In 20 % of all cases of Hepatitis C ( or 1 in every 5 cases ) , it is not known what caused the infection , but many of these cases are thought to have been caused by intravenous drug use .
It may be found in people with anti-hepatitis-C antibodies but with normal serum levels of liver enzymes ; in antibody-negative people with ongoing elevated liver enzymes of unknown cause ; in healthy populations without evidence of liver disease ; and in groups at risk for HCV infection including those on hemodialysis or family members of people with occult HCV .	People with Hepatitis C who are alcoholics are even more likely - 100 times more likely - to get liver cancer .
Limitations in the implementation and enforcement of stringent standard precautions in public and private medical and dental facilities are known to be the primary cause of the spread of HCV in Egypt , the country with highest rate of infection in the world .	In Egypt , which has the highest rate of infection in the world , medical and dental facilities with poor standards of care and cleanliness are the most common reason that Hepatitis C spreads .
Tattooing is associated with two to threefold increased risk of hepatitis C. This can be due to either improperly sterilized equipment or contamination of the dyes being used .	People who get tattoos are about two to three times more likely to get Hepatitis C. This can be because of tools that are not sterile ( not clean or free of germs ) , or because the dyes used for tattooing are contaminated ( the Hepatitis C virus has gotten inside of them ) .
Hepatitis C infects only humans and chimpanzees .	If it is not treated , Hepatitis C goes away by itself in 10-50 % of infected people ( 1 to 5 out of every 10 ) .
It is estimated that nearly half of prison inmates share unsterilized tattooing equipment .	Bigger tattoos also seem to put a person at more risk of getting Hepatitis C. The risk of getting Hepatitis C is very high in prisons ; in the United States , almost half of all prison inmates share tattooing tools that are not sterile .
Infection of the graft leads to 10-30 % of people developing cirrhosis within five years .	For example , people who get cirrhosis are twenty times more likely to get liver cancer ( with about 1-3 % getting liver cancer every year ) .
Treatment during the first six months is more effective than once hepatitis C has become chronic .	Hepatitis C is usually spread by blood-to-blood contact ( when blood from a person with Hepatitis C contacts ( touches or gets into ) another person 's bloodstream .
This engineering process is known to create humanized mice , and provide opportunities to study hepatitis C within the 3D architectural design of the liver and evaluating antiviral compounds .	In the developed world , the most common way that people get Hepatitis C is through intravenous drug use ( by shooting drugs into a vein , using a needle that was already used by a person who has Hepatitis C ) .
40 % of those with hepatitis but with both negative hepatitis C serology and the absence of detectable viral genome in the serum have hepatitis C virus in the liver on biopsy .	This makes it possible for the person to survive , but the Hepatitis C virus usually comes back after the transplant .
Tattoos or piercings performed either before the mid-1980s , `` underground , '' or nonprofessionally are of particular concern , since sterile techniques in such settings may be lacking .	Tattoos or body piercings that were done before the mid-1980s or by people who are not professionals ( not experts ) are especially likely to spread Hepatitis C , since they are more likely to have used tools that were not sterile .
The United States Department of Veterans Affairs recommends condom use to prevent hepatitis C transmission in those with multiple partners , but not those in monogamous relationships .	The United States government says that most people need to use condoms to protect themselves from getting Hepatitis C only if they have more than one sexual partner .
This chronic infection can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin , with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .	The medications that are normally used to treat Hepatitis C are called peginterferon and ribavirin .
The risk is greater if the needle in question is hollow and the puncture wound is deep .	The worker is more likely to get infected if the needle they were stuck with was hollow , or if the needle stuck deeply into their skin It is also possible for the Hepatitis C virus to spread if an infected person 's mucus touches another person 's blood ; however , the risk of this happening is low .
Worldwide the prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in pregnant women and children has been estimated to 1-8 % and 0.05-5 % respectively .	If a pregnant woman has Hepatitis C , nothing can be done to make her less likely to give her baby the disease .
Hepatitis C is also associated with Sjögren 's syndrome ( an autoimmune disorder ) ; thrombocytopenia ; lichen planus ; porphyria cutanea tarda ; necrolytic acral erythema ; insulin resistance ; diabetes mellitus ; diabetic nephropathy ; autoimmune thyroiditis and B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders .	One rare problem that Hepatitis C can cause is Sjögren 's syndrome , an autoimmune disorder ( or a disorder where the body 's system of defenses attacks itself ) .
No vaccine against hepatitis C is available .	Other rare problems that Hepatitis C can cause are chronic ( long-lasting ) skin disease ; non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma ( a type of cancer ) ; and diabetes ( where a person 's body does not make or use enough insulin , an important hormone that controls the level of sugar in the blood ) .
Occurrence of hepatitis C among prison inmates in the United States is 10 to 20 times that of the occurrence observed in the general population ; this has been attributed to high-risk behavior in prisons such as IDU and tattooing with nonsterile equipment .	Studies have also shown that in places where there are high numbers of IV drug users , people are more likely to have Hepatitis C. For example , prisoners in the United States are ten to twenty times more likely than the general population ( people in general ) to have Hepatitis C. This is thought to be because prisoners are more likely to things that put them at high risk for getting Hepatitis C , like using IV drugs and getting tattoos with tools that have not been cleaned properly .
Cirrhosis due to hepatitis C is a common reason for liver transplantion though the virus usually ( 80-90 % of cases ) recurs afterwards .	Hepatitis C can also cause some rare problems ( problems which do not happen very often ) , which affect parts of the body outside of the liver .
Use of antibiotics in early life has been linked to the development of asthma .	`` Children with asthma or at risk for asthma should avoid the use of acetaminophen . ''
Brittle asthma is a kind of asthma distinguishable by recurrent , severe attacks .	Cough-variant asthma Cough-variant asthma is a type of asthma in which a cough is the main , and sometimes only sign .
While these are the primary symptoms of asthma , some people present primarily with coughing , and in severe cases , air motion may be significantly impaired such that no wheezing is heard .	Some people with asthma may have long periods of time between asthma attacks where they show no signs and experience no symptoms of asthma , while others may have some or all of the signs and symptoms everyday which become more severe during an attack .
However , it is not known if asthma causes psychological problems or if psychological problems lead to asthma .	There are other signs of breathing difficulty as in an asthma attack , which are important to learn , and knowing them can help tell if someone who can not talk is having breathing problems .
It occurs in most people with asthma and up to 20 % of people without asthma .	Up to 40 % of people with allergic rhinitis also have asthma .
It is estimated that 5-25 % of asthma cases in adults are work-related .	Work-related asthma Work related asthma are types of asthma that are caused or made worse by irritants in the environment at a person 's place of work .
Some people with asthma rarely experience symptoms , usually in response to triggers , whereas others may have marked and persistent symptoms .	There are also some people with asthma who might only have signs and symptoms during certain times , such as those with exercise induced asthma , where the exercise triggers the symptoms .
Signs which occur during an asthma attack include the use of accessory muscles of respiration ( sternocleidomastoid and scalene muscles of the neck ) , there may be a paradoxical pulse ( a pulse that is weaker during inhalation and stronger during exhalation ) , and over-inflation of the chest .	A person may have some signs and symptoms during one asthma attack and have different symptoms during another asthma attack .
The hygiene hypothesis attempts to explain the increased rates of asthma worldwide as a direct and unintended result of reduced exposure , during childhood , to non-pathogenic bacteria and viruses .	People of lower socioeconomic status suffer higher rates of asthma , have worse outcomes , and also have as higher asthma-related death rates than people of higher economic status .
Exposure to indoor volatile organic compounds may be a trigger for asthma ; formaldehyde exposure , for example , has a positive association .	Early warning signs The early warning signs of asthma may include : A trigger factor or trigger for short , is something that causes the signs and symptoms of a medical condition to begin in a person who already has that medical condition .
There is an association between paracetamol ( acetaminophen ) use and asthma but it is unclear if it has a role in causing asthma .	Acetaminophen and asthma There have been studies that show a link between Acetaminophen and asthma .
Low air quality from factors such as traffic pollution or high ozone levels , has been associated with both asthma development and increased asthma severity .	There are also things that people with asthma can do to help themselves , and keep their asthma from getting worse , or from having an asthma attack .
Evidence supporting the hygiene hypothesis includes lower rates of asthma on farms and in households with pets .	Not every person with asthma has all the signs and symptoms of asthma all the time .
Symptoms are usually worse at night and in the early morning or in response to exercise or cold air .	Nocturnal asthma Nocturnal asthma : is the term used to describe asthma cases that get worse at night ( nocturnal ) .
Acute severe asthma , previously known as status asthmaticus , is an acute exacerbation of asthma that does not respond to standard treatments of bronchodilators and corticosteroids .	Status asthmaticus Status asthmaticus is a severe form of asthma in which an asthma attack gets worse as it goes along and the medicines that are usually used to treat asthma do not work .
Asthma as a result of ( or worsened by ) workplace exposures , is a commonly reported occupational disease .	The kind of jobs that may cause work related asthma are usually those in which there is a lot of smoke or chemicals are used .
The occurrence of asthma has increased significantly since the 1970s .	The exact cause of asthma is not yet known .
There is a link between asthma and the degree of affluence .	Previously the American College of Physicians reported a link between non-atopic asthma and acetaminophen use based on results of The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey .
Certain viral respiratory infections , such as respiratory syncytial virus and rhinovirus , may increase the risk of developing asthma when acquired as young children .	For some the signs and symptoms of asthma may be triggered or made worse ( exacerbated ) when they have viral respiratory tract infections , often the type casued by human rhinoviruses .
Certain other infections , however , may decrease the risk .	These changes can make a person more likely to get certain diseases like asthma .
Also , delivery via caesarean section is associated with an increased risk ( estimated at 20-80 % ) of asthma-this increased risk is attributed to the lack of healthy bacterial colonization that the newborn would have acquired from passage through the birth canal .	A person having an asthma attack often makes wheezing sounds when trying to breath , this is the sound of air trying to pass through the very narrow airway .
Harrison died on his 32nd day in office of complications from pneumonia , serving the shortest tenure in United States presidential history .	Harrison died on his 32nd day as president on April 4 , 1841 at 12:30 am of pneumonia , jaundice , and septicima .
As the infection ages , perhaps as the nematogens reach a certain density , vermiform larvae mature to form rhombogens , the sexual life stage , rather than more nematogens .	Later , as the hosts mature , sexual forms called rhombogens are formed .
Genetic counselors provide information and support to families who have members with birth defects or genetic disorders , and to families who may be at risk for a variety of inherited conditions .	Genetic disorders , by definition , can be passed on in heredity .
A person may also undergo genetic counseling after the birth of a child with a genetic condition .	Clients with a disorder may be interested in the probability of developing or transmitting a genetic disorder to their children .
The goals of genetic counseling are to increase understanding of genetic diseases , discuss disease management options , and explain the risks and benefits of testing .	It is obvious that the demand for genetic counselling will increase hugely once accurate and complete genome analyses are widely available .
In 1501 Prince Arthur , ( son of Henry VII and brother to Henry VIII ) with his bride Catherine of Aragon , lived here for a short time before his early death of an infection from which his wife recovered .	Among those who lived at the castle were Prince Arthur , the son of King Henry VII of England , and Prince Edward , the future King Edward V of England .
Sensation is the function of the low-level biochemical and neurological events that begin with the impinging of a stimulus upon the receptor cells of a sensory organ .	In psychology , sensation is the first stage in the biochemical and neurologic events : It begins with a stimulus upon the receptor cells of a sensory organ , which then leads to perception , the mental state that is reflected in statements like `` I see a uniformly blue wall . ''
In May 1982 , aged 43 , Schneider was found dead in her Paris apartment .	She was found dead in her Paris apartment at the age of 43 , probably from a heart attack , although no autopsy was performed .
If no bodily fluids are exchanged ( as is common ) , mutual masturbation is a form of safe sex , and greatly reduces the risk of transmission of sexual diseases .	It is a way to practice safer sex and of birth control as bodily fluids are not exchanged between partners .
Long term disturbances of mood such as clinical depression and bipolar disorder are considered mood disorders .	When people 's moods are disturbed for a long time , they may have a mental illness called a mood disorder , like major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder .
On 11 October 2010 , Sutherland 's family announced that she had died at her home at Les Avants in Switzerland the previous day of cardiopulmonary failure - `` the heart just gave out ... When it came to the point that she physically could n't do anything , she did n't want to live any more .	She died of cardiopulmonary failure at her home near Montreux , Switzerland , at the age of 83 .
According to Swedo , Leckman and Rose ( 2012 ) , pediatric patients suffering from PANS would be identified by the following criteria : As there are other conditions that may have similar presentation , diagnostic workup of individuals suspected of PANS should exclude Sydenham 's chorea , lupus erythematosus , acute disseminated encephalomyelitis , and Tourette syndrome .	Therefore diagnostic tests must be done to exclude other conditions like Sydenham 's chorea , lupus erythematosus , acute disseminated encephalomyelitis , and Tourette syndrome .
Research into the etiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder has identified dysfunctions of the basal ganglia as a key factor for the onset of OCD .	It causes Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) and\/or tics .
Treatment with antibiotics , and immune-based therapeutic approaches are still considered as experimental .	But scientists are already working to develop treatments with antibiotics and immune-based therapies that can heal the disease .
It may be either conntected to Group A streptococcal infections ( PANDAS sub-group ) or caused by immunologic reactions to other pathogens ( PITANDS sub-group ) affecting the basal ganglia .	The reason for PANS can be a bacteria called `` Group A streptococcus '' ( PANDAS type ) or an immunologic reaction to other pathogens like certain bacteria or viruses .
Many children were forced to work in relatively bad conditions for much lower pay than their elders , 10-20 % of an adult male 's wage .	Children and women had to work for a long time for little pay .
Jehovah 's Witnesses refuse blood transfusions , which they consider a violation of God 's law based on their interpretation of Acts 15:28 , 29 and other scriptures .	They also refuse to have blood transfusions because they believe that in the Bible God said blood should not be taken into the body .
The birth was difficult , and the queen died on 24 October 1537 from an infection and was buried in Windsor .	He died on 28 January 1547 and was buried in Windsor Castle .
Gregor Johann Mendel ( July 20 , 1822 - January 6 , 1884 ) was a German-speaking Silesian scientist and Augustinian friar who gained posthumous fame as the founder of the modern science of genetics .	Gregor Johann Mendel ( Heinzendorf , Austria , 20 July 1822 - Brünn , Austro-Hungary , 6 January 1884 ) was an Austrian monk and botanist .
Dr. Tenenbaum helps Jack to remove Fontaine 's conditioned responses , including one that would have stopped his heart .	When it becomes clear to Fontaine that he is losing control of Jack , Fontaine points out the fact that Tenenbaum has survived both World War II as a Holocaust victim and the battle in Rapture , hinting that she has a secret agenda of her own .
Atlas led attacks on the factories making Little Sisters , and Ryan countered by creating `` Big Daddies '' , plasmid-enhanced humans surgically grafted into giant lumbering diving suits who were psychologically compelled to protect the Little Sisters at all costs .	Atlas tells Jack that the only way he can survive is to use the abilities granted by plasmids , and that he must kill the Little Sisters to extract their ADAM .
Emergency medicine is a medical specialty involving care for adult and pediatric patients with acute illnesses or injuries that require immediate medical attention .	EM doctors specialize in treating diseases and injuries that need immediate care .
While not usually providing long-term or continuing care , Emergency Medicine Physicians ( DOs\/MDs ) diagnose a variety of illnesses and undertake acute interventions to resuscitate and stabilize patients .	These kind of diseases or injuries are called emergencies .
The toe box allows the dancer to experience the feel of a pointe shoe , while the insole and outsole work together to provide the resistance needed for developing foot and ankle strength .	Attempting to dance en pointe before the feet and toes are fully grown can cause career-ending damage that will prevent dancing en pointe for a lifetime .
He studied at the University of Algiers , where he was goalkeeper for the university association football team , until he contracted tuberculosis in 1930 .	He went to the University of Algiers , where he graduated with a degree in 1935 .
In a 14 month period until May 20 , 2004 , the clinics charged over $ 16 million in Medicaid dental charges , and records from the Colorado state government revealed that many children each had over 10 teeth drilled and given silver caps within a single visit .	The offices also did lots of dental work on the children and put a lot of crowns on the children 's teeth , so the Colorado government said that the clinics could only place a specified number crowns for each day .
A May 9 , 2004 story in The Colorado Springs Gazette revealed that the children underwent large amounts of dental work at the clinics .	He also said the clinic had goals to do a certain amount of dental work so the clinic could make money .
After Channel 4 Action News WTAE-TV began an investigation on Small Smiles , the U.S. Senate filed a report saying that taxpayer dollars were wasted in Small Smiles and recommended that its Medicaid access be terminated .	The news report went on television and people began filing lawsuits against Small Smiles .
Regular menstruation ( also called eumenorrhea ) lasts for a few days , usually 3 to 5 days , but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is considered normal .	However , anywhere from 2-7 days is normal .
If pregnancy does not occur , this lining is released in what is known as menstruation , or a menstrual period .	Menstruation or menses is when a girl has blood come out of her vagina for 2-7 days every month .
During this period , public health authorities began pressing for better waste disposal systems to be installed , to prevent or control epidemics of disease .	At about the same time , public health leaders began wanting better systems to get rid of waste .
The proximate cause of famine was a potato disease commonly known as potato blight .	The Famine was caused by `` the Blight '' , a was a potato fungus which quickly destroyed the potatoes in Ireland .
Vitreous enamel has many excellent properties : it is smooth , hard , chemically resistant , durable , scratch resistant ( 5-6 on the Mohs scale ) , has long-lasting color fastness , is easy to clean , and can not burn .	The glass is hard-wearing , scratch resistant and easy to clean .
Such enameled ferrous material had , and still has , many applications : early 20th century and some modern advertising signs , interior oven walls , cooking pots , housing and interior walls of major kitchen appliances , housing and drums of clothes washers and dryers , sinks and tubs cast iron bathtubs , farm storage silos , and processing equipment such as chemical reactors and pharmaceutical process tanks .	Its use was extended in the 19th century for practical objects like kitchen equipment and road signs .
Although each disorder occurs in approximately 5 % of children , 25-40 % of children with either dyslexia or ADHD meet criteria for the other disorder .	Children with dyslexia can be helped .
There are three proposed cognitive subtypes of dyslexia ( auditory , visual and attentional ) , although individual cases of dyslexia are better explained by specific underlying neuropsychological deficits and co-occurring learning difficulties ( e.g. an auditory processing disorder , an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , a visual processing disorder ) and co-occurring learning difficulties ( e.g. dyscalculia and dysgraphia ) .	Many people who have dyslexia also have other mental disorders , especially attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder .
Dyslexia is the most common learning difficulty and most recognized reading disorder .	The most common signs of dyslexia are reading and writing problems .
HPV types 6 and 11 are responsible for 90 % of documented cases of genital warts .	There are different ways of getting rid of a wart : There are different types of warts , caused by different HPV viruses : There are different ways of getting rid of a wart :
The epidermis serves several functions : protection against water loss by way of transpiration , regulation of gas exchange , secretion of metabolic compounds , and ( in some species ) absorption of water .	Its main functions are photosynthesis and gas exchange .
The scrotum is a dual-chambered protuberance of skin and muscle , present in some male mammals , that contains the testicles and is divided by a septum .	The scrotum is the bag that holds the testicles in male mammals .
In humans and some other mammals , the scrotum becomes covered with pubic hair at puberty .	It is often covered in pubic hair and becomes tight when the male is aroused .
The post-mortem examination found that he had mixed amphetamines and alcohol ; this diuretic combination proved fatal when combined with the heat , the hard climb of the Ventoux and a stomach complaint .	Added to brandy , the hard climb up Mont Ventoux , the hot conditions , and a stomach complaint , the doping was fatal .
Germany was among the hardest-hit in the global famine that ensued , and the experience is said to have shaped Liebig 's later work .	Liebig 's textbooks were the standard for many years .
Children may have behaviors that are easily mistaken for epileptic seizures but are not .	Very often , the actual cause for an epileptic seizure is lack of sleep , too much alcohol , or other things that cause stress .
The definition of epilepsy requires the occurrence of at least one epileptic seizure . ''	People with epilepsy are sometimes called epileptic , but it is the fit or seizure that is `` epileptic '' .
About 1 % of people worldwide ( 65 million ) have epilepsy , and nearly 80 % of cases occur in developing countries .	The condition is very common ; about 50 million people have epilepsy worldwide .
Epilepsy becomes more common as people age .	Epilepsy is not one condition .
In certain types of epilepsy , seizures happen more often during sleep , and in other types they occur almost only when sleeping .	There are many different forms of seizures , and there are also many different forms of epilepsy .
Epilepsy may occur as a result of a number of other conditions including : tumors , strokes , head trauma , previous infections of the central nervous system , genetic abnormalities , and as a result of brain damage around the time of birth .	Epilepsy is a chronic condition of the brain .
There are a number of non-profit organizations that provide support to people and families affected by epilepsy .	Many countries in the world say there are special rules for people who have epilepsy .
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder affects three to five times more children with epilepsy than children in the general population .	When it was developed , it was mainly used to treat certain children with epilepsy , before good drugs became available .
Malnutrition is a risk factor seen mostly in the developing world , although it is unclear however if it is a direct cause or an association .	The condition has many forms , but generally the following is true : In most cases , epilepsy is caused by scars in the brain .
The seed is also used in various alternative healing systems like Ayurveda ( to control diabetes , for example . )	The seed is also used in various alternative healing systems like Ayurveda , Unani and Chinese medicine for digestive ailments .
Recently historians have hypothesized that Pollock might have had bipolar disorder .	Pollock was bitter , and had serious drinking problems .
By 2004 the US government had given more than $ 20 million to Maharishi University of Management to study the effect of meditation on health .	Experts on cults say those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique may show cult-like actions , while David Orme-Johnson , a psychologist and researcher who was once a professor at Maharishi University of Management , says studies show that those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique act in ways that are adult and self - sufficient , and do not act in the way people in cults are said to act .
The benzodiazepines with a longer half-life make detoxification more tolerable , and dangerous alcohol withdrawal effects are less likely to occur .	The resulting drug has sedative effects .
Anger may have physical correlates such as increased heart rate , blood pressure , and levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline .	Being angry changes the human body by making the heart beat faster , increasing blood pressure ( the pressure made by the blood at right angles of the walls of blood vessels ) and increasing amounts of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline ( chemicals which send messages to parts of the body to make changes ) .
Humans and animals , for example , make loud sounds , attempt to look physically larger , bare their teeth , and stare .	Animals and humans might try to scare - by making loud sounds , trying to make their bodies look bigger , by showing their teeth , or by staring .
The pituitary gland secretes nine hormones that regulate homeostasis .	The hypothalamus releases factors down the pituitary stalk to the pituitary gland where they stimulate the release of pituitary hormones .
This contrasts with the posterior pituitary ( neurohypophysis ) , which originates from neuroectoderm .	The pituitary gland consists of two parts : the anterior pituitary and the posterior pituitary .
The posterior pituitary stores and secretes ( not synthesize ) the following important endocrine hormones : Magnocellular Neurons : The intermediate lobe synthesizes and secretes the following important endocrine hormone : Some of the diseases involving the pituitary gland are : All of the functions of the pituitary gland can be adversely affected by an over or under production of associated hormones .	It is an important part of the endocrine system .
The pituitary gland sits in the hypophysial fossa , situated in the sphenoid bone in the middle cranial fossa at the base of the brain .	The pituitary gland is at the base of the brain between the eyes .
Somatotrophins : Thyrotrophins : Corticotropins : Lactotrophins : Gonadotropins : These hormones are released from the anterior pituitary under the influence of the hypothalamus .	The gland is attached to the hypothalamus and gives out hormones .
A gene is a stretch of DNA that encodes information .	Up-regulation increases the expression of one or more genes and as a result the protein ( s ) encoded by those genes .
The pericardium 's outer wall is called the parietal pericardium and the inner one the visceral pericardium .	The outer covering is the pericardium .
Deoxygenated blood from the body flows via the vena cava into the right atrium , which pumps it through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle , whose subsequent contraction forces it out through the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary arteries leading to the lungs .	The veins going into the right atrium are the superior vena cava and inferior vena cava .
In normal adults , the mass of the heart is 250-350 grams ( 9-12 oz ) , or about twice the size of a clenched fist ( it is about the size of a clenched fist in children ) , but an extremely diseased heart can be up to 1000 g ( 2 lb ) in mass due to hypertrophy .	It is a very strong muscle that is about the size of a fist .
It is located anterior to the vertebral column and posterior to the sternum .	The heart is a muscle found in every animal that has a vertebral column .
The clitoris , vestibular bulbs , labia minora , and urethra consist of two histologically distinct types of vascular tissue , the first of which is trabeculated , erectile tissue present in the clitoris and the bulbs , which have large , dilated vascular spaces filled with blood and are spongy in appearance .	In both the clitoris and the penis , there are two types of erectile tissue .
The clitoral hood projects at the front of the labia commissure , where the edges of the labia majora ( outer lips ) meet at the base of the pubic mound ; it forms as part of the external folds of the labia minora ( inner lips ) and covers the glans and external shaft .	The parts of the clitoris that can be seen from the outside are located from the clitoral junction ( the point where the outer lips meet at the base of the pubic mound ) to the fork ( where the lower edges of the inner lips meet below the vaginal opening ) .
With regard to nerve endings , the human clitoris 's estimated 8,000 or more ( for its glans or clitoral body as a whole ) is commonly cited as being twice as many as the nerve endings found in the human penis ( for its glans or body as a whole ) , and as more than any other part of the human body .	The clitoral shaft is connected to the glans .
The clitoris and penis are generally the same anatomical structure , although the distal portion ( or opening ) of the urethra is absent in the clitoris of humans and most other animals .	Although the parts are placed differently , the clitoris is a match to the male penis .
They concluded that some females have more extensive clitoral tissues and nerves than others , especially having observed this in young cadavers compared to elderly ones , and therefore whereas the majority of females can only achieve orgasm by direct stimulation of the external parts of the clitoris , the stimulation of the more generalized tissues of the clitoris via vaginal intercourse may be sufficient for others .	The outside parts include : The parts of the clitoris inside the body include erectile tissue , glands , muscles , blood vessels , and nerves .
However , the clitoris can not reach the size of the penis through hormones .	Adding the outside and inside parts , the clitoris is about the same size as the penis .
In the majority of the books , penis was the most commonly discussed body part - mentioned more than clitoris , vagina , and uterus put together .	The clitoris and penis grow from the same tissue in the womb ; they bare many similar parts .
Though some texts state that they surround the vaginal opening , this does not appear to be the case and tunica albuginea does not envelop the erectile tissue of the bulbs .	The shaft is a round spongy erectile tissue .
Direct clitoral stimulation involves physical stimulation to the external anatomy of the clitoris - glans , hood , external shaft .	Also during arousal , touching the clitoris and other sensitive areas of the female genitals makes a woman 's vagina change shape and release a lubricant .
With regard to the urethral lumen ( the inner open space or cavity of the urethra ) , Yang et al. state that it is surrounded by spongy tissue and that the tissue `` is grossly distinct from the vascular tissue of the clitoris and bulbs , and on macroscopic observation , is paler than the dark tissue of the bulbs and clitoris .	These legs are also made of spongy tissue .
Through his observations of female masturbation and interviews with thousands of women , Kinsey found that most of the women he observed and surveyed could not have vaginal orgasms , a finding that was also supported by his knowledge of sex organ anatomy .	Rubbing or applying other consistent pressure to it is usually needed to help the female have an orgasm .
Upon anatomical study , the penis can be described as a clitoris that has been mostly pulled out of the body and grafted on top of a significantly smaller piece of spongiosum containing the urethra .	Only a small part of it is seen outside the body .
The word `` hair '' usually refers to two distinct structures : Hair fibers have a structure consisting of several layers , starting from the outside : Each strand of hair is made up of the medulla , cortex , and cuticle .	Dyeing hair is to change the color of hair .
Blond hair is the result of having little pigmentation in the hair strand .	This explains why two brown-haired parents can produce a blond-haired child .
Gray hair occurs when melanin production decreases or stops , while poliosis , typically in spots is hair ( and often the skin to which the hair is attached ) that never possessed melanin at all in the first place , or ceased for natural genetic reasons , generally in the first years of life .	Many people dye their hair to hide gray or white hairs .
This argument assumes that curly hair better impedes the passage of UV light into the body relative to straight hair ( thus curly or coiled hair would be particularly advantageous for light-skinned hominids living at the equator ) .	Sheep and goats have curly hair , which is usually called wool .
It is substantiated by Iyengar 's ( 1998 ) findings that UV light can pass through straight human hair roots in a manner similar to the way that light passes through fiber optic tubes ( Iyengar , 1998 ) .	Hair color is passed down by parents only .
The disease can attack any part of the digestive tract , from mouth to anus .	The immune system attacks healthy parts of the digestive tract .
Gastroduodenal Crohn 's disease causes inflammation in the stomach and first part of the small intestine , called the duodenum .	Crohn 's can also cause skin rashes , arthritis , and swollen eyes .
While Crohn 's is an immune related disease , it does not appear to be an autoimmune disease ( in that the immune system is not being triggered by the body itself ) .	Like many other autoimmune diseases , Crohn 's disease seems to be connected to the person 's genes .
Many children are first diagnosed with Crohn 's disease based on inability to maintain growth .	Nobody knows exactly what causes Crohn 's disease .
Inflammation may also involve the white part of the eye ( sclera ) , a condition called episcleritis .	This causes inflammation , or swelling , in the digestive tract .
A silent stroke is a stroke that does not have any outward symptoms associated with stroke , and the patient is typically unaware they have suffered a stroke .	A silent stroke is a kind of stroke that does not cause symptoms that can be seen in a major stroke such as slurred speech .
These strokes are termed `` silent '' because they typically affect `` silent '' regions of the brain that do not cause a noticeable change in an afflicted person 's motor functions such as contralateral paralysis , slurred speech , pain , or an alteration in the sense of touch .	These strokes are called `` silent '' because they typically happen in parts of the brain , that do not problems that can be seen like those in a major stroke .
Many of these risk factors are the same as those associated with having a major symptomatic stroke .	These people did not know they had a stroke .
Approximately 770,000 of these strokes were symptomatic and 11 million were first-ever silent MRI infarcts or hemorrhages .	About 770,000 of these strokes had symptoms which could be seen and 11 million were first-ever silent strokes .
Ledger died on 22 January 2008 from an accidental intoxication from prescription drugs .	Ledger died in New York City on January 22 , 2008 .
He died in the hospital on 25 June .	Foucault died of an AIDS-related illness in Paris on 26 June 1984 .
During this time , the virus does not produce any progeny , it remains inactive until external stimuli-such as light or stress-prompts it to activate .	During this time , the virus will not produce any copies , it will remain inactive until external stimuli ( such as light or stress ) prompts it into activation , or the redtart of the life cycle .
The mechanisms of reproductive isolation have been classified in a number of ways .	Modern researchers tends to avoid the general term ` isolating mechanisms ' in favor of the more specific terms ` mate choice ' , ` hybrid incompatibility ' and other forms of ` reproductive isolation ' .
The government asked medical experts to declare the Báb insane so that he could not be executed .	Then the Báb said that all of those things were true about himself .
Ebert lived with cancer of the thyroid and salivary glands from 2002 that required treatments that necessitated his lower jaw being removed , thus costing him the ability to speak or eat normally .	Ebert lived with thyroid cancer since its diagnosis in 2002 .
It was published on April 6 , 2013 .	Just two days later , on April 4 , 2013 , Ebert died from the disease in Chicago , Illinois .
Mouthwash and gels containing Sodium Nitrate are used in treatment of dentine hypersensitivity .	Some other explosives use it .
These smaller species are known for an alleged tendency to invade and parasitise the human urethra ; however , despite ethnological reports dating back to the late 19th century , the first documented case of the removal of a candiru from a human urethra did not occur until 1997 , and even that incident has remained a matter of controversy .	These smaller species are known for being thought to invade and make use of a person 's urethra .
White blood cells help to resist infections and parasites .	White blood cells also help to fight other toxic substances .
There are some conditions affecting the heme groups present in hemoglobin that can make the skin appear blue-a symptom called cyanosis .	These chemicals cause inflammation in a part of the body .
Arterial blood carries oxygen from inhaled air to all of the cells of the body , and venous blood carries carbon dioxide , a waste product of metabolism by cells , to the lungs to be exhaled .	Red blood cells carry oxygen and carbon dioxide around our body .
The decreased binding to carbon dioxide in the blood due to increased oxygen levels is known as the Haldane effect , and is important in the transport of carbon dioxide from the tissues to the lungs .	It also takes away waste and carbon dioxide from tissues .
In many invertebrates , these oxygen-carrying proteins are freely soluble in the blood ; in vertebrates they are contained in specialized red blood cells , allowing for a higher concentration of respiratory pigments without increasing viscosity or damaging blood filtering organs like the kidneys .	Red blood cells bring more oxygen around the body .
However , because of allosteric effects on the hemoglobin molecule , the binding of CO2 decreases the amount of oxygen that is bound for a given partial pressure of oxygen .	It is made to carry a large amount of oxygen .
Blood is a bodily fluid in animals that delivers necessary substances such as nutrients and oxygen to the cells and transports metabolic waste products away from those same cells .	Plasma is made up of nutrients , electrolytes ( salts ) , gases , non-protein hormones , waste , lipids , and proteins .
Plasma circulates dissolved nutrients , such as glucose , amino acids , and fatty acids ( dissolved in the blood or bound to plasma proteins ) , and removes waste products , such as carbon dioxide , urea , and lactic acid .	The proteins and the carbon dioxide in the RBC are buffers for the blood .
The proteinaceous component of blood ( including clotting proteins ) is produced predominantly by the liver , while hormones are produced by the endocrine glands and the watery fraction is regulated by the hypothalamus and maintained by the kidney .	Plasma proteins are made mostly by the liver .
This can cause suffocation insidiously .	If it happens in a blood vessel going to the heart , it can cause a heart attack .
In animals with lungs , arterial blood carries oxygen from inhaled air to the tissues of the body , and venous blood carries carbon dioxide , a waste product of metabolism produced by cells , from the tissues to the lungs to be exhaled .	Cells also make carbon dioxide as a waste .
Lymph is collected by a system of small lymphatic vessels and directed to the thoracic duct , which drains into the left subclavian vein where lymph rejoins the systemic blood circulation .	If a blood clot happens in a blood vessel going to the brain , it can cause a stroke .
The restriction of blood flow can also be used in specialized tissues to cause engorgement , resulting in an erection of that tissue ; examples are the erectile tissue in the penis and clitoris .	Although blood is a fluid , in some respects it is a kind of connective tissue .
Some carbon monoxide binds to hemoglobin when smoking tobacco .	They also take away the carbon dioxide .
Buckley 's cough syrup from Canada today uses ammonium carbonate as an active ingredient intended to help relieve symptoms of bronchitis .	It can also be used in cough syrup .
When a fertilized ovum reaches the uterus , it becomes implanted in the lining of the uterus ( the endometrium ) and a pregnancy begins .	If this works , the now fertilized ovum sticks to the side of the uterus and the woman becomes pregnant .
Use of the terms sexual intercourse and sex to denote penile-vaginal intercourse is the prevalent usage of the words in common discourse , though sex and the phrase `` have sex '' frequently mean any penetrative or non-penetrative sexual activity between two or more people .	Sexual intercourse is the natural and most common way to make a baby .
The most effective way to avoid sexually transmitted infections is to abstain from sexual intercourse , especially vaginal , anal , and oral sexual intercourse .	Anal sex can still pass sexually transmitted diseases from one partner to another .
Scholars state `` many couples are locked into the idea that orgasms should be achieved only through intercourse ( penile-vaginal sex ) , '' that `` the word foreplay suggests that any other form of sexual stimulation is merely preparation for the ` main event ' '' and that '' ( b ) ecause women reach orgasm through intercourse less consistently than men , they are more likely than men to have faked an orgasm '' .	There are many other kinds of sex .
While the development of the birth-control pill and other highly effective forms of contraception in the mid - and late 20th century increased people 's ability to segregate these three functions , they still overlap a great deal and in complex patterns .	Another well-known type of contraception is called the Pill , which a woman takes every day .
However , pregnancy can still occur with anal sex or other forms of sexual activity where the penis is near the vagina ( such as intercrural sex or other genital-genital rubbing ) where sperm can be deposited near the entrance of the vagina and can travel along the vagina 's lubricating fluids ; the risk of pregnancy can also occur without the penis being near the vagina because sperm may be transported to the vaginal opening by the vagina coming in contact with fingers or other non-genital body parts that have come in contact with semen .	Anal sex with a female does not lead to pregnancy by itself , however , semen can leak out of the anus and enter into the vagina , and pregnancy may rarely occur .
Sexual intercourse , or coitus or copulation , is chiefly the insertion and thrusting of a male 's penis , usually when erect , into a female 's vagina for the purposes of sexual pleasure or reproduction ; also known as vaginal intercourse or vaginal sex .	Anal sex is when an erect penis or other device made for sexual pleasure is inserted into the sexual partner 's anus .
Globally , there are about 350 million chronic carriers of hepatitis B. There are 19 million new cases of sexually transmitted infections every year in the U.S. , and , in 2005 , the World Health Organization estimated that 448 million people aged 15-49 were being infected a year with curable STIs ( such as syphilis , gonorrhea and chlamydia ) .	Some examples of STIs include chlamydia infection , syphilis and gonorrhoea .
Because people can be at risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections during these activities , though the transmission risk is significantly reduced during non-penetrative sex , safe sex practices are advised .	Main article : Sexually transmitted disease Some diseases can be caught by having sex .
STIs are caused by bacteria , viruses and parasites , which are passed from person to person during sexual contact .	Some STIs can also be spread in ways other than having sex .
Studies also report that most heterosexual couples engage in vaginal intercourse `` almost every time they have sex '' .	Men who like to have sex with women , and women who like to have sex with men are heterosexual or `` straight '' .
Vaginismus can be a vicious cycle for women ; they expect to experience pain during sexual intercourse , which then causes a muscle spasm , which leads to painful sexual intercourse .	A painful sexual act is a condition of repeated or persistent genital pain before , during , or after sexual intercourse due to physical , psychogenic and emotional causes .
In many societies , it is normal for couples to have sexual intercourse while using some method of birth control ( contraception ) , sharing pleasure and strengthening their emotional bond through sexual activity even though they are deliberately avoiding pregnancy .	Birth control ( like `` the Pill '' ) can prevent pregnancy , but wo n't prevent sexual infections .
Male orgasm usually includes ejaculation , a series of muscular contractions that deliver semen containing male gametes known as sperm cells or spermatozoa from the penis into the vagina .	It involves a man and woman having sex without birth control until the man ejaculates , or releases , semen from his penis into the woman 's vagina .
Unlike most species , human sexual activity is not linked to periods of estrus and can take place at any time during the reproductive cycle , even during pregnancy .	In sexual intercourse , the male reproductive organ enters the female reproductive tract .
During coitus , the partners move their hips to move the penis backward and forward inside the vagina to cause friction , typically without fully removing the penis .	This is a piece of rubber that covers the penis that a man can wear during intercourse , which stops the man 's semen from going into the woman 's vagina .
The CDC stated '' ( t ) he risk of HIV transmission from an infected partner through oral sex is much less than the risk of HIV transmission from anal or vaginal sex , '' but that '' ( m ) easuring the exact risk of HIV transmission as a result of oral sex is very difficult '' and that this is `` because most sexually active individuals practice oral sex in addition to other forms of sex , such as vaginal and\/or anal sex , when transmission occurs , it is difficult to determine whether or not it occurred as a result of oral sex or other more risky sexual activities '' .	People can get sexually transmitted infections from oral sex , such as herpes ( which can be passed between the mouth and groin ) , HIV and even oral cancer .
When a fertile ovum from the female is present in the fallopian tubes , the male gamete joins with the ovum , resulting in fertilization and the formation of a new embryo .	The fertilized ovum then develops into a human .
A 1999 study by the Kinsey Institute examined the definition of sex based on a 1991 random sample of 599 college students from 29 U.S. states ; it reported that while `` virtually every college student they surveyed considered penile-vaginal intercourse to be sex , '' and only 19-20 % said that anal intercourse was not sex , 60 % said oral-genital contact ( fellatio , cunnilingus ) did not constitute having sex .	Forcing someone to have sex who does not want to , called rape , is a serious crime in many countries .
Lewis Hamilton 's parents separated when he was two , as a result of this he lived with his mother and half-sisters Nicola and Samantha until he was twelve , when he started living with his father , stepmother Linda and half-brother Nicolas ( who has cerebral palsy ) .	Hamilton 's parents separated when he was two .
There are many issues with classifying a personality disorder .	In the United States , the United Kingdom , and many other countries , personality disorders are classed as a kind of mental disorder and are treated by medical professionals .
DSM-5 lists ten personality disorders , grouped into three clusters .	Cluster B is the dramatic or emotional group of personality disorders .
The ICD-10 section on mental and behavioral disorders includes categories of personality disorder and enduring personality changes .	Cluster A is the odd or eccentric group of personality disorders .
The classification of 68 personality disordered patients on the caseload of an assertive community team using a simple scale showed a 3 to 1 ratio between Type R and Type S personality disorders with Cluster C personality disorders being significantly more likely to be Type S , and paranoid and schizoid ( Cluster A ) personality disorders significantly more likely to be Type R than others .	Cluster C is the anxious or fearful group of personality disorders .
The brain is an organ that serves as the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate and most invertebrate animals-only a few invertebrates such as sponges , jellyfish , adult sea squirts and starfish do not have a brain , even if diffuse neural tissue is present .	Segmented invertebrates have ganglions in each segment , and a ring of nervous tissue around the alimentary canal at the front .
The prefrontal cortex carries out functions that include planning , working memory , motivation , attention , and executive control .	The brain does the thinking , learning , and feeling for the body .
From a philosophical point of view , what makes the brain special in comparison to other organs is that it forms the physical structure associated with the mind .	The brain also uses nerves to tell the body what to do , for example by telling muscles to move or our heart to beat faster .
The elaboration of the cerebral cortex carries with it changes to other brain areas .	Most connections are from one area of the cortex to another , rather than to subcortical areas ; The figure may be as high as 99 % .
Visually , the interior of the brain consists of areas of so-called gray matter , with a dark color , separated by areas of white matter , with a lighter color .	It is also the center of balance , a vital part of movement .
Zinc finger nucleases have also been used in a mouse model of hemophilia and an ongoing clinical trial is evaluating Zinc finger nucleases that disrupt the CCR5 gene in CD4 + human T-cells as a potential treatment for HIV\/AIDS .	Zinc finger nucleases are made with 3-6 zinc fingers .
Increasing the number of zinc fingers increases the specificity by increasing the number of base pairs that the ZFN can bind to .	One zinc finger can bind about 3 base pairs by itself .
ZFNs have also been used to modify disease-causing alleles in triplet repeat disorders .	ZFNs that knock out base pairs for more than one gene are not considered accurate .
In addition to histidine , a conserved arginine on the second beta strand of the zinc fingers makes contact with the phosphodiester oxygen on the DNA strand .	Cells fix broken DNA strands on their own using DNA repair .
At the 6th residue , fingers 1 and 3 have arginine donating a pair of charged hydrogen bonds to Nitrogen 7 and Oxygen 6 of guanine at the 5 ' end enhancing the site recognition sequence of zinc fingers .	They have two parts .
Each zinc finger has an arginine ( arg ) amino acid protruding from the alpha helix , which forms a hydrogen bond with Nitrogen 7 and Oxygen 6 of the guanine ( gua ) that is located at the 3 ' end of the binding site .	The zinc atom binds the proteins and makes them more stable .
The following month , Presley announced he had been diagnosed with lung cancer and therefore decided to retire from the music industry .	In January 2012 , Presley said he was retiring due to being diagnosed with lung cancer .
Another found that if one takes into account chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) in those with PAD , the benefit of obesity no longer exists .	The obesity paradox has also been found in patients with stroke , diabetes , and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
One of the strongest is the link with type 2 diabetes .	An example is Type 2 diabetes .
Obesity prevention programs have been found to reduce the cost of treating obesity-related disease .	Surgery can be used to treat obesity .
Obesity has thus historically been viewed as a sign of wealth and prosperity .	In some cultures obesity is viewed as positive .
Dieting and physical exercise are the mainstays of treatment for obesity .	Despite this , dieting is the most common treatment for obesity .
Obese people are also paid less than their non-obese counterparts for an equivalent job ; obese women on average make 6 % less and obese men make 3 % less .	Also they are worried that people who are not obese will take them .
Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have a negative effect on health , leading to reduced life expectancy and\/or increased health problems .	Obesity is the condition of being much too heavy for one 's height so that one 's health is affected .
People with class I obesity and heart disease do not have greater rates of further heart problems than people of normal weight who also have heart disease .	Many health problems are associated with obesity .
The total annual direct cost of overweight and obesity in Australia in 2005 was A$ 21 billion .	People with grade 2 and 3 obesity are 29 % more likely to die .
Obesity is stigmatized in much of the modern world ( particularly in the Western world ) , though it was widely seen as a symbol of wealth and fertility at other times in history , and still is in some parts of the world .	It is associated with wealth , beauty , and fertility .
Obesity is a leading preventable cause of death worldwide , with increasing rates in adults and children .	It has been suggested that obesity is associated with mortality ( death ) because of mortality in Grade 2 and 3 obesity .
This apparent alteration of the metabolic potential is believed to confer a greater capacity to harvest energy contributing to obesity .	Other factors that often contribute to obesity are : Genetics are known to contribute to obesity .
Some attribute the Venus figurines to the tendency to emphasize fertility while others feel they represent `` fatness '' in the people of the time .	In other words , it means to be too overweight .
Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health .	Risk is associated with where the excess fat is stored on the body .
Costs for restaurants are increased by litigation accusing them of causing obesity .	Growth charts can be used to measure obesity in children . )
A study examining Duke University employees found that people with a BMI over 40 kg\/m2 filed twice as many workers ' compensation claims as those whose BMI was 18.5-24 .9 kg\/m2 .	A 2013 review of scientific papers found that Grade 1 obesity ( BMI 30-34 .9 ) is not associated with increased deaths .
As a result , obesity has been found to reduce life expectancy .	Some people think that the idea that obesity causes bad health is not completely true and has been exaggerated .
Obese people consistently under-report their food consumption as compared to people of normal weight .	They are not more likely to get heart disease or die than metabolically healthy non-obese people .
Gestures are processed in the same areas of the brain as speech and sign language such as the left inferior frontal gyrus ( Broca 's area ) and the posterior middle temporal gyrus , posterior superior temporal sulcus and superior temporal gyrus ( Wernicke 's area ) .	They are handled in the human brain by the same centres which handle language .
Asbestosis is a chronic inflammatory and fibrotic medical condition affecting the parenchymal tissue of the lungs caused by the inhalation and retention of asbestos fibers .	Asbestosis is a disease of the lungs caused by inhaling fibers of asbestos .
Keratin is the key structural material making up the outer layer of human skin .	Keratins are also found in the gastrointestinal tracts of many animals , including roundworms ( who also have an outer layer made of keratin ) .
Keratin derives from Greek κέρατος from Greek keras ( genitive keratos ) meaning `` horn '' originating from the Proto-Indo-European \* ḱer - of the same meaning .	The name comes from Greek word keras meaning `` horn '' .
Limited interior space is the reason why the triple helix of the ( unrelated ) structural protein collagen , found in skin , cartilage and bone , likewise has a high percentage of glycine .	Keratins are the main constituent of structures that grow from the skin : Arthropods such as crustaceans often have parts of their armor or exoskeleton made of keratin , sometimes in combination with chitin .
At the same time , Black was developing a similar method of treatment for stomach ulcers , but ICI did not wish to pursue the idea so Black resigned in 1964 and joined Smith , Kline and French where he worked for nine years until 1973 .	At the same time , Black was trying to find a treatment for stomach ulcers .
Propranolol has been described as the greatest breakthrough in heart disease treatments since the 18th century discovery of digitalis and has benefited millions of people .	Propranolol has helped millions of people .
Goals of tertiary prevention include : preventing pain and damage , halting progression and complications from disease , and restoring the health and functions of the individuals affected by disease .	The concept of prophylaxis has two parts .
Preventive healthcare is especially important given the worldwide rise in prevalence of chronic diseases and deaths from these diseases .	Prophylactic treatment is helpful in a different way .
In the case of a sexually transmitted disease such as syphilis health promotion activities would include avoiding microorganisms by maintaining personal hygiene , routine check-up appointments with the doctor , general sex education , etc. whereas specific protective measures would be using prophylaxis ( such as condoms ) during sex and avoiding sexual promiscuity .	Condoms are prophylactic , because when you use them , a female will not get pregnant , and it reduces the spread of sexually transmitted diseases .
More than 90 % were not killed in combat , dying instead from malaria , diarrhea , pneumonia and malnutrition , aggravated by displaced populations living in unsanitary and over-crowded conditions that lacked access to shelter , water , food and medicine .	The vast majority died from conditions of malaria , diarrhea , pneumonia and malnutrition .
Of these , cataract is responsible for 65 % ) or more than 22 million cases of blindness and glaucoma is responsible for 6 million cases , while leprosy and onchocerciasis each blind approximately 1 million individuals worldwide .	In all the world , blindness is mostly caused by malnutrition and diseases of old people , like cataracts and trachoma .
H. G. Wells ' story `` The Country of the Blind '' explores what would happen if a sighted man found himself trapped in a country of blind people to emphasise societies attitude to blind people by turning the situation on its head .	In modern countries , few young people are blind .
It has been estimated that over half of totally blind people have non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder , a condition in which a person 's circadian rhythm is longer than 24 hours .	When people are blind they use such things as the alphabet in braille and guide dogs to do every day life things .
Studies have also shown that children with Autism spectrum disorders , learning disabilities , Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) and other related neurological diseases can benefit from the use of melatonin .	Insomnia is a symptom and not a disease or illness .
The Latin term genitalia , sometimes anglicized as genital area , is used to describe the externally visible sex organs , known as primary genitalia or external genitalia : in males , the penis and scrotum ; and in females , the clitoris and vulva .	Sometimes , however , the words genitalia or genitals are used to refer only to the external sex organs .
In humans , women have two genital orifices , the vagina and urethra , while men have only one , the urethra .	The vagina is also called the birth canal , because when a pregnant woman has a baby , it passes through the vagina .
The most important of these are the gonads , a pair of sex organs , specifically the testes in the male or the ovaries in the female .	Males and females have different sex organs .
The visible portion of the mammalian genitals for males consists of the scrotum and penis ; for females , it consists of the labia , clitoris , and vagina .	The part of a woman 's genitals that is outside her body is called the vulva .
If the fetus has testes , and if the testes produce testosterone , and if the cells of the genitals respond to the testosterone , the outer urogenital folds swell and fuse in the midline to produce the scrotum ; the protuberance grows larger and straighter to form the penis ; the inner urogenital swellings grow , wrap around the penis , and fuse in the midline to form the penile urethra .	The testicles also make a hormone called testosterone .
Each sexual organ in one sex has a homologous counterpart in the other one .	When a man and a woman have sexual intercourse , the man 's penis is placed into the woman 's vagina .
In 2007 it was reported that some canned light tuna such as yellowfin tuna is significantly higher in mercury than skipjack , and caused Consumers Union and other activist groups to advise pregnant women to refrain from consuming canned tuna .	However , most canned light tuna is skipjack tuna and is very low in mercury .
Unfortunately , he fell victim of the plague early in 1680 , and died in Prague , where the Viennese court moved in an attempt to evade the epidemic .	A few years later the court moved to Prague to try to escape the plague that was killing so many people in Vienna .
He died during a plague epidemic only months after getting the position .	However , the following March Schmelzer died of the plague .
At the 2.5 % strength , selenium disulfide is also used on the body to treat tinea versicolor , a type of fungal skin infection caused by a different species of Malassezia .	It can also be used to treat fungal ( from fungi ) skin infections .
The acquired response is said to be `` adaptive '' because it prepares the body 's immune system for future challenges ( though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in autoimmunity ) .	It is adaptive immunity because the body 's immune system prepares itself for future challenges .
Whilst maintaining the church 's teaching against homosexual acts , he has said that gay people should not be marginalized .	Pope Francis supports the Catholic teaching that homosexual acts are immoral and holds the teaching of the Church concerning homosexual orientation .
In 1945 , in his Nobel lecture `` Penicillin , '' Alexander Fleming warned against the use of sub‐therapeutic doses of antibiotics - `` bought by anyone in the shops '' without a prescription : `` The time may come when penicillin can be bought by anyone in the shops .	In his 1945 Nobel Prize lecture he said : `` It is not difficult to make microbes resistant to penicillin in the laboratory by exposing them to concentrations not sufficient to kill them , and the same thing has occasionally happened in the body ... The time may come when penicillin can be bought by anyone in the shops .
This is not the case for Mycobacterium tuberculosis , the bacteria that causes Tuberculosis , since evidence is lacking for whether these bacteria have plasmids .	It is caused by various types of mycobacteria , usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis .
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) was first detected in Britain in 1961 , and is now `` quite common '' in hospitals .	MRSA is Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus .
Backup treatments can have serious side-effects ; for example , treatment of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis can cause deafness and insanity .	Drug-resistant TB is a serious public health issue in many developing countries , as its treatment is longer and requires more expensive drugs .
In the past 10 years , infections caused by this organism have emerged in the community .	Tuberculosis , or TB for short , is an infectious disease caused by bacteria .
( It is useful to remember that antibiotics are not used in treatment of all diseases caused by bacteria .	Since the discovery of penicillin in 1928 by Alexander Fleming , antibiotics have been used to fight bacterial diseases .
( For more on Drug-Resistant TB , visit the Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis page . )	MDR-TB is defined as resistance to the two most effective first-line TB drugs : rifampicin and isoniazid .
When both bacteria are spread , serious health conditions arise .	The pathogen can travel through the air , and spread from one person to the next .
Cash died four months later .	Cash died on September 12 , 2003 in Nashville , Tennessee from complications of diabetes .
The next year , when James Francis Edward was expelled and Louise Mary died of smallpox , Mary was very upset ; according to Mary 's close friend Madame de Maintenon , Mary was `` a model of desolation '' .	This left Mary without any family in France ( Princess Louise Mary had died of smallpox ) .
He died three weeks later in a Southampton hospital under ` mysterious circumstances ' although in Ali Rahnema 's biography of Shariati , he is said to have died of a fatal heart attack .	Three weeks later he died in Southampton .
CNN These high-priority agents pose a risk to national security , can be easily transmitted and disseminated , result in high mortality , have potential major public health impact , may cause public panic , or require special action for public health preparedness .	Biological agents in category A pose a high risk to national security .
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention a bioterrorism attack is the deliberate release of viruses , bacteria , toxins or other harmful agents used to cause illness or death in people , animals , or plants .	Bioterrorism refers to the use of biological agents with the intent to cause panic , illness , or death .
Tracy died 17 days later from a heart attack on June 10 .	He was diabetic and died of a heart attack .
During T cell-dependent activation , an antigen presenting cell ( APC ) presents a processed antigen to a helper T ( Th ) cell , priming it .	Before the B cell can create antibodies , it first needs T helper cells '' to ` teach ' the B cell about details of the incoming invader .
Humoral immunity is so named because it involves substances found in the humors , or body fluids .	One part of the immune system is called the humoral immune system , which is specifically for defending against infectious invaders that are in the blood or other body fluids .
Scarlett learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever and her father 's mind has begun to fail under the strain .	Unfortunately , Charles gets sick and dies in the war , and Scarlett is left home bored with the traditions of mourning a man she did n't love .
Fr Dunne recorded the baptism : Wilde died of cerebral meningitis on 30 November 1900 .	p546 He died of cerebral meningitis in Paris at the age of forty-six .
The primary effectiveness issue with using condoms to prevent STDs , however , is inconsistent use .	Nowadays women also can use condoms .
Although a condom is effective in limiting exposure , some disease transmission may occur even with a condom .	There are two ways to see how effective condoms are .
For fertility treatments , a collection condom may be used to collect semen during sexual intercourse where the semen is provided by the woman 's partner .	A condom is a thin cover that is put on a man 's penis and used during sexual intercourse .
Male condoms have a tight ring to form a seal around the penis while female condoms typically have a large stiff ring to keep them from slipping into the body orifice .	The first condoms were made of tissue .
Condoms may slip off the penis after ejaculation , break due to improper application or physical damage ( such as tears caused when opening the package ) , or break or slip due to latex degradation ( typically from usage past the expiration date , improper storage , or exposure to oils ) .	Condoms normally have an expiration date on them .
Condoms are often used in sex education programs , because they have the capability to reduce the chances of pregnancy and the spread of some sexually transmitted diseases when used correctly .	According to a 2001 study by the National Institutes of Health , correct and consistent condom use : Other sexually-transmitted infections may be affected as well , but they could not draw definite conclusions from the research they were working with .
These are most commonly obtained through masturbation , but an alternative to masturbation is use of a special collection condom to collect semen during sexual intercourse .	A condom can also fail because it has been damaged , because the latex has weakened , or because it has come off the penis during sexual intercourse .
Condoms are widely recommended for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections ( STDs ) .	They can also prevent the spread of certain sexually transmitted infections , such as gonorrhea , syphilis , or HIV .
Like polyurethane condoms , polyisoprene condoms are said to do a better job of transmitting body heat .	Like male condoms , they increase protection for partners from pregnancy and STD 's .
Although they are generally effective as a contraceptive by blocking sperm , it is presumed that they are likely less effective than latex in preventing the transmission of agents that cause STDs , because of pores in the material .	However they do not prevent diseases as effectively as regular condoms .
Parkinson 's disease is a neurodegenerative disease whose primary symptoms are tremor , rigidity , bradykinesia , and postural instability .	Parkinson 's disease is a neurological syndrome characterized by tremor , hypokinesia , rigidity , and postural instability .
Deep brain stimulation has been used in a small number of clinical trials to treat patients suffering from a severe form of treatment-resistant depression ( TRD ) .	Deep brain stimulation has been used in a few patients to treat major depressive disorder ( MDD ) .
Viswanathan A et al ( 2012 ) say that DBS should be used in patients with `` severe functional impairment that can not be managed medically '' .	Although DBS has worked for some patients with head injuries , DBS may not work for every patient with serious head injury and\/or coma .
Due to concern over the use of DBS in the treatment of Tourette syndrome , the Tourette Syndrome Association convened a group of experts to develop recommendations guiding the use and potential clinical trials of DBS for TS .	DBS has been used to treat pain disorder , Parkinson 's disease , Major depressive disorder , Obsessive-compulsive disorder , and Tourette syndrome .
There is insufficient evidence to support DBS as a therapeutic modality for depression ; however , the procedure may be an effective treatment modality in the future .	In August 2007 , US scientists used DBS on a 38-year-old man who was in a coma for six years because of a head injury .
Medical practitioners are divided on whether oats are acceptable to celiac disease sufferers or whether they become cross-contaminated in milling facilities by other grains .	Doctors do not agree on whether oats affect coeliac disease sufferers .
Wallace nearly died of spinal meningitis while serving in the Army , but prompt medical attention with sulfa drugs saved his life .	Wallace died at the age of 79 from a spinal infection after 26 years of being in a wheelchair .
He developed a series of criteria around this that have become known as the Koch 's postulates .	He developed criteria known as the Koch 's postulates and was among first to isolate bacteria in pure culture resulting in his description of several bacteria including Mycobacterium tuberculosis , the causative agent of tuberculosis .
This gave rise to germ theory , a certain microorganism being responsible for a certain disease .	Robert Koch contributed to the germ theory of disease , provided that specific diseases were caused by specific microbes .
Medical microbiology is a branch of medicine concerned with the prevention , diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases .	Medical microbiology studies development and progress of the infectious disease in a patient and in human population ( epidemiology ) .
Fast and relatively simple biochemical tests can be used to identify infectious agents .	The work here is mainly concerned with cultures , to look for suspected pathogens which , if found , are identified based on biochemical tests .
Gajdusek concluded that kuru was transmitted by the ritualistic consumption of the brains of deceased relatives , which was practiced by the Fore .	Gajdusek thought that that kuru was spread by the ritualistic eating of the brains of dead family members .
This was the first demonstration of the infectious spread of a noninflammatory degenerative disease in humans .	This was the first time it was shown that a non-inflammatory degenerative disease could be spread in humans .
He was later accused by one of these , now an adult man , of molesting him as a child .	Later , as an adult , one of these children said that Gajdusek molested him as a child .
Kuru was shown to have remarkable similarity to scrapie , a disease of sheep and goats caused by an unconventional infectious agent .	Kuru is the first human prion disease shown to be infectious .
With elimination of cannibalism , kuru disappeared among the South Fore within a generation .	When the cannibalism was stopped , kuru stopped spreading in just one generation .
In 1981 , Billy Burroughs died in Florida .	Burroughs died of a heart attack .
However , not all epileptic seizures lead to convulsions , and not all convulsions are caused by epileptic seizures .	Seizures also can have other causes :
For non-epileptic convulsions , see non-epileptic seizures .	Seizure can also refer to the act of taking hold of property , for this meaning see Seizure ( law ) A seizure is when the nerves of somebody act strangely .
The word `` fit '' is sometimes used to mean a convulsion or epileptic seizure .	The person faints while the seizure is happening .
Because a convulsion is often a symptom of an epileptic seizure , the term convulsion is sometimes used as a synonym for seizure .	There are many different types of seizures .
Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria .	Bacteria ( one of them is a bacterium ) are very small organisms .
The ancestors of modern bacteria were unicellular microorganisms that were the first forms of life to appear on Earth , about 4 billion years ago .	Bacteria are made up of one cell , so they are a kind of unicellular organism .
The main pathogenic bacteria in this class is Mycoplasma ( not to be confused with Mycobacteria ) .	Pathogenic bacteria , the harmful kind , enter the human body from the air , water or food .
In one peculiar group , the myxobacteria , individual bacteria move together to form waves of cells that then differentiate to form fruiting bodies containing spores .	Bacteria are identified and grouped by their shapes .
Bacteria were among the first life forms to appear on Earth , and are present in most of its habitats .	There are probably more individual bacteria than any other sort of organism on the planet .
In such cases , gene acquisition from other bacteria or the environment is called horizontal gene transfer and may be common under natural conditions .	Bacteria do not have sexes , but they do collect and transmit DNA by several kinds of horizontal gene transfer .
The enzyme lysozyme , found in human tears , also digests the cell wall of bacteria and is the body 's main defense against eye infections .	Some bacteria can cause diseases , but others help us in everyday activities like digesting food ( gut flora ) .
Two essential fatty acids are linoleic acid ( LA ) and alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) .	This would include acetic acid , although this is not usually considered a fatty acid ( not a lipid ) .
As the clerk closes the bureau , Aschenbach asks him about the plague and is told that the city is in the grip of Asiatic cholera .	An English clerk tells him that lots of people in the city have Asiatic cholera .
The Polish family appears and Aschenbach determines that they must not find out about the cholera outbreak for fear that they will leave .	Aschenbach does not want the Polish family to leave Venice .
On his arrival , he finds citizens reading public notices warning them to take precautions against infection .	There are notices in the streets warning people to be careful of the sickness .
The citizens too deny that there is any cause for worry , but Aschenbach finds a graver warning in a German newspaper : ` We doubt the good faith of the Venetian city fathers in their refusal to admit to the cases of cholera in the city .	Aschenbach is being rowed on the water .
The Taíno population of the island was rapidly decimated , owing to a combination of new infectious diseases , to which they had no immunity , and harsh treatment by Spanish overlords .	The Taíno population of the island decreased very fast because a combination of new diseases , like smallpox , and abuses by the Spaniards .
That said , for highly qualified activities ( research , management ) low IQ scores are more likely to be a barrier to adequate performance , whereas for minimally-skilled activities , athletic strength ( manual strength , speed , stamina , and coordination ) are more likely to influence performance .	The task force agrees that large differences do exist between the average IQ scores of blacks and whites , and that these differences can not be attributed to biases in test construction .
The blood-brain barrier is a part of the capillary system that prevents the entry of T cells into the central nervous system .	In this disease , the body 's natural guard against illness ( the immune system ) damages fatty coverings called myelin sheaths around the axons of cells called neurons in the central nervous system .
While the cause is not clear , the underlying mechanism is thought to be either destruction by the immune system or failure of the myelin-producing cells .	The immune system attacks either the fatty parts of the myelin or the protein parts of the myelin .
Stress may also trigger an attack .	Inflammation can happen in response to stress , which is why stress may put people at higher risk of developing MS and may trigger attacks .
A repair process , called remyelination , takes place in early phases of the disease , but the oligodendrocytes are unable to completely rebuild the cell 's myelin sheath .	The body may also attack the cells that produce the myelin sheath , called glial cells .
Only in a few cases and after many years does it cause demyelination .	Some scientists think that one unknown pathogen ( a small thing that causes illness ) may cause MS in people who already have a high risk of getting the disease .
Between attacks , symptoms may go away completely ; however , permanent neurological problems often occur , especially as the disease advances .	When this happens , symptoms ( the problems caused by the disease ) go away for a short time in a period called remission .
The attack of myelin starts inflammatory processes , which triggers other immune cells and the release of soluble factors like cytokines and antibodies .	In MS patients , inflammation from the immune system 's activity against myelin causes swelling and other harmful effects in the nervous system .
Although , in general , effective in the short term for relieving symptoms , corticosteroid treatments do not appear to have a significant impact on long-term recovery .	Inflammation is an important part of MS symptoms .
Smoking has been shown to be an independent risk factor for MS. Stress may be a risk factor although the evidence to support this is weak .	Some viruses can cause myelin damage , and there are some viruses that have been shown to make people more likely to get MS. Even though scientists and doctors have many ideas about things that could cause MS , no one has found a cause that explains every case of the disease .
30 to 70 % of persons experiencing CIS later develop MS. Secondary progressive MS occurs in around 65 % of those with initial relapsing-remitting MS , who eventually have progressive neurologic decline between acute attacks without any definite periods of remission .	The type of MS that has remissions and relapses is called Remitting-Relapsing MS. In less common cases , the body continues attacking myelin and the symptoms get worse and worse without stop , a form called Primary Progressive MS. Sometimes a combination of the two types can happen .
MS takes several forms , with new symptoms either occurring in isolated attacks ( relapsing forms ) or building up over time ( progressive forms ) .	When the body attacks the myelin again , the symptoms return in a period called relapse .
Inflammation can potentially reduce transmission of information between neurons in at least three ways .	Inflammation is the first part of an immune system response .
The disease-modifying treatments have several adverse effects .	Other treatments are used all the time to help make attacks happen less often .
Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , also known as disseminated sclerosis or encephalomyelitis disseminata , is an inflammatory disease in which the insulating covers of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord are damaged .	Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) is a serious health condition that gets worse over time .
Decreased sunlight exposure resulting in decreased vitamin D production has also been put forward as an explanation .	A special machine called an MRI can photograph the inside of the central nervous system to show if the person has lesions from damaged myelin .
Evidence for a virus as a cause include : the presence of oligoclonal bands in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid of most people with MS , the association of several viruses with human demyelination encephalomyelitis , and the occurrence of demyelination in animals caused by some viral infection .	People with MS have many problems .
Vaccinations were studied as causal factors ; however , most studies show no association .	This observation supports the idea that MS is caused by infection illness early in life , because people who move from one natural environment to another can get new illnesses that their immune systems can not yet fight .
After returning to Cambridge he again began work with Hunter and Richard Jackson , who had discovered the RNA strand used to start hemoglobin synthesis .	After returning to Cambridge he continued work on substances which started or inhibited protein synthesis .
Though legally blind because of astigmatism and a subsequent injury to his right eye , Knight pursued his artistic talents with the help of specially-designed glasses , and at the age of twelve , he enrolled at the Metropolitan Art School to become a commercial artist .	At twelve , he enrolled at the Metropolitan Art School to become a commercial artist .
However , in individuals which are heterozygous for an inversion , there is an increased production of abnormal chromatids ( this occurs when crossing-over occurs within the span of the inversion ) .	If a cross-over occurs within this inversion loop , it can lead to loss or gain of DNA .
SARS may be suspected in a patient who has : A probable case of SARS has the above findings plus positive chest X-ray findings of atypical pneumonia or respiratory distress syndrome .	Severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) ( simplified Chinese : 严重急性呼吸道综合症 ; traditional Chinese : 嚴重急性呼吸道綜合症 or simply Chinese : 非典型肺炎 ) was an atypical pneumonia .
Between November 2002 and July 2003 , an outbreak of SARS in southern China caused an eventual 8,273 cases and 775 deaths reported in multiple countries with the majority of cases in Hong Kong .	After the Chinese government suppressed news of the SARS outbreak , the disease spread rapidly , reaching Hong Kong and Vietnam in late February 2003 , and then to other countries via international travellers .
Butter and oils are examples of fats .	Fats , oils , and sweets give calories , fats , and sugars but not a lot of nutrition .
Watson also uses an experiment that he and his wife conducted , where they conditioned a baby to say `` da-da '' when he wanted his bottle .	In the book , Watson explained that behaviorists were starting to believe psychological care and analysis was required for infants and children .
The cholera outbreak which began in October 2010 has continued .	And workers for the UN introduced cholera to the country in October 2010 , which made many people sick and killed thousands more .
They claimed that rape of Haitian women and girls who had been living in camps since the January earthquake was increasing , in part , because the United Nations was n't doing enough to protect them .	Three days after the earthquake , the Haitian Interior Minister said that up to 200,000 had died because of the quake and its effects .
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid-base balance , and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ) .	They are part of the urinary system .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic clinical features .	There are many types of kidney diseases .
The concave surface , the renal hilum , is the point at which the renal artery enters the organ , and the renal vein and ureter leave .	A person who gets a renal transplant must take strong medicines to stop their body from attacking the new kidney .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into smaller pieces , which are then passed through the urinary tract .	A better way to do the kidneys ' work is to give the person another kidney .
The right kidney sits just below the diaphragm and posterior to the liver , the left below the diaphragm and posterior to the spleen .	Sometimes , after years , the transplanted kidney stops working .
Renin is the first in a series of important chemical messengers that make up the renin-angiotensin system .	Renin is made by the kidney if there is low blood pressure , low volume of blood , or too low salts in the blood .
Renal histology studies the structure of the kidney as viewed under a microscope .	For example , renal failure is when the kidneys are sick and do not work .
An initial workup of a patient may include a complete blood count ( CBC ) ; serum electrolytes including sodium , potassium , chloride , bicarbonate , calcium , and phosphorus ; blood urea , nitrogen and creatinine ; blood glucose and glycocylated hemoglobin .	When the blood is cleaned ; water , salts and wastes are taken out of it .
The anterior ( front ) border of these tissues is the peritoneum , while the posterior ( rear ) border is the transversalis fascia .	Kidney transplants are the most common type of organ transplant .
Nephrons , the urine-producing functional structures of the kidney , span the cortex and medulla .	This is called a kidney transplant .
Various conditions can lead to scarring and congestion of this area , which can cause kidney dysfunction and failure .	People can have mild kidney failure and have no symptoms .
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function , while nephrology is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases .	If kidney disease makes the kidneys not able to do but they do work in part .
Conversely , when renin levels are low , angiotensin II and aldosterone levels decrease , contracting the extracellular fluid compartment , and decreasing blood pressure .	All of this makes the blood pressure go up .
The filtration fraction is the amount of plasma that is actually filtered through the kidney .	Then the fluid comes out and takes the wastes with it .
The majority of mammals have seven cervical vertebrae ( bones in the neck ) , including bats , giraffes , whales , and humans .	Mammals have three little bone in their inner ear , the ear ossicles .
ə \/ ) are a clade of endothermic amniotes distinguished from the reptiles and the birds by the possession of hair , three middle ear bones , mammary glands in females , and a neocortex ( a region of the brain ) .	The ear ossicles are bones which were , long ago , part of the lower jaw in early proto-mammals .
In rare cases , intersex conditions can be caused by mosaicism where some cells in the body have XX and others XY chromosomes ( 46 , XX\/XY ) .	Females have two X chromosomes ( and males have only one ) .
Generally this leads to a milder phenotype than in non-mosaic patients with the same disorder .	This may give rise to mild symptoms in female ` carriers ' of X-linked genetic disorders .
Eventually Pharaoh let the Hebrews depart after Moses ' God sent ten plagues upon the Egyptians .	Finally God inflicted ten plagues upon the Egyptians before Pharaoh agreed to release the Israelites .
After the Ten Plagues , Moses led the Exodus of the Israelites out of Egypt and across the Red Sea , after which they based themselves at Mount Sinai , where Moses received the Ten Commandments .	After the Ten Plagues were unleashed on Egypt , Moses led the Hebrew people out of Egypt , across the Red Sea , where they based themselves at Horeb and compassed the borders of Edom .
She has acknowledged that she has suffered from obsessive-compulsive disorder during her childhood .	She also had obsessive compulsive disorder and panic attacks .
Zinc oxide can be used in ointments , creams , and lotions to protect against sunburn and other damage to the skin caused by ultraviolet light ( see sunscreen ) .	Zinc oxide can be used as a sunscreen .
Zinc oxide as a mixture with about 0.5 % iron ( III ) oxide ( Fe2O3 ) is called calamine and is used in calamine lotion .	Zinc oxide is used in the vulcanization of rubber , preventing the rubber from becoming brittle .
Most commonly found as small circular , double-stranded DNA molecules in bacteria , plasmids are sometimes present in archaea and eukaryotic organisms .	Plasmids usually occur naturally in bacteria , but are sometimes found in eukaryotic organisms ( e.g. , the 2-micrometre-ring in Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) .
In 2004 , the WHO and UNICEF recommended the use of low-osmolarity oral rehydration solution and zinc supplementation as a two-pronged treatment of acute diarrhoea .	In many countries the medicine used is called `` oral rehydration solution '' .
Through the Rotavirus Vaccine Program and the Accelerating Vaccine Introduction initiative , these groups are partnering with research institutions and governments to reduce child morbidity and mortality from diarrhoeal disease by making a vaccine against rotavirus available for use in developing countries .	A vaccine , which prevents children from getting the disease is available in many countries .
Depending on the severity of diarrhoea , treatment consists of oral rehydration , during which the child is given extra water to drink that contains small amounts of salt and sugar .	It contains salt and sugar , which helps the body take up the water .
Symptoms often start with vomiting followed by four to eight days of profuse diarrhoea .	The signs of the disease are severe diarrhoea and vomiting , which start suddenly and last for two or three days .
Some people with bronchiectasis may produce frequent green\/yellow sputum ( up to 240ml ( 8 oz ) daily ) .	Some people with bronchiectasis make sputum that is green or pale yellow .
It is classified as an obstructive lung disease , along with emphysema , bronchitis , and asthma .	Bronchiectasis is an obstructive lung disease .
Bronchiectasis may also present with hemoptysis in the absence of sputum , called `` dry bronchiectasis '' .	3 out of 4 people with bronchiectasis often cough up a lot of sputum .
Kartagener syndrome is one such disorder of cilia motility linked to the development of bronchiectasis , .	There are three kinds of bronchiectasis .
Bronchiectasis has both congenital and acquired causes , with the latter more frequent .	Some people with bronchiectasis have sinusitis that does not go away .
Later in 1936 , Faustina became ill , since speculated to be tuberculosis .	In 1936 , Saint Faustina became seriously ill .
That year the first signs of her illness ( which was later thought to be tuberculosis ) appeared and she was sent to rest for several months in a nearby farm owned by her religious order .	At the time , doctors thought it could be tuberculosis .
Dental floss is a bundle of thin filaments used to remove food and dental plaque from teeth .	Some people use toothpicks to try to remove trapped food from between the teeth and other people use dental floss to do this .
It 's possible that thicker floss does a better job of scraping bacterial plaque off teeth , given that there is space enough between the teeth to use it .	So floss presumably does a better job at getting bits of food out from between the teeth , relieving discomfort and pain quicker .
Flossing in combination with toothbrushing can prevent gum disease , and halitosis .	`` Gingivitis '' which means gum disease is one type of disease that flossing helps to prevent .
On the other hand , if the floss is too thin , it may be too weak and break .	Flossing your teeth reduces the danger of these serious diseases of the jaw bone .
The floss is guided between each tooth and under the gumline to remove particles of food stuck between teeth and dento-bacterial plaque that adhere to such dental surfaces .	These bacteria that come from the food on the teeth and between the teeth are called `` plaque '' or `` bacterial plaque '' and also can cause the gums to become less healthy .
This is because such pairing increases the proportion of zygotes that are homozygous , in particular for deleterious recessive alleles that produce such disorders ( see also inbreeding depression ) .	Some of the homozygous genes will be deleterious recessives which would normally be shielded by a dominant allele .
Waste material is eliminated from the rectum during defecation .	Finally , waste products leave the body .
It is a common cause of death in developing countries and the second most common cause of infant deaths worldwide .	In developing nations , malnutrition is a common cause of child death .
Both agree that drinks with too much sugar or salt can make dehydration worse .	Stress and drinking too much alcohol or caffeine can also cause diarrhea .
Generally , if there is blood visible in the stools , it is not diarrhea , but dysentery .	However , there are many diseases that can cause your body to have diarrhea .
Osmotic diarrhea occurs when too much water is drawn into the bowels .	Diarrhea can occur in humans as well as most other mammals .
The most common cause is gastroenteritis .	Diarrhea is not a disease .
If a person drinks solutions with excessive sugar or excessive salt , these can draw water from the body into the bowel and cause osmotic diarrhea .	Food safety and hand washing can lower the risk of getting diarrhea .
Oral Rehydration Solution ( ORS ) can be used to prevent dehydration .	It is a condition that a body can be in .
However , for ill or malnourished individuals , diarrhea can lead to severe dehydration and can become life-threatening .	Another way diarrhea can kill you is by dehydration .
In 1957 , the American J.J. Burns showed that the reason some mammals are susceptible to scurvy is the inability of their liver to produce the active enzyme L-gulonolactone oxidase , which is the last of the chain of four enzymes that synthesize vitamin C. American biochemist Irwin Stone was the first to exploit vitamin C for its food preservative properties .	In 1959 the American J.J. Burns showed that the reason why some animals get scurvy is because their liver can not make one chemical enzyme that other animals have .
The vast majority of animals and plants are able to synthesize vitamin C , through a sequence of enzyme-driven steps , which convert monosaccharides to vitamin C. In plants , this is accomplished through the conversion of mannose or galactose to ascorbic acid .	Synthesis is achieved through a sequence of enzyme driven steps , which convert glucose to ascorbic acid .
The following table shows the relative abundance of vitamin C in various foods of animal origin , given in milligrams of vitamin C per 100 grams of food : Vitamin C chemically decomposes under certain conditions , many of which may occur during the cooking of food .	The following table is to give an idea of how much vitamin C is in different plant foods .
In 1912 , the Polish American biochemist Casimir Funk , while researching beriberi in pigeons , developed the concept of vitamins to refer to the non-mineral micronutrients that are essential to health .	In 1912 the Polish American scientist Casimir Funk first used the word vitamin for something present in food in small amounts that is essential to health .
From 1928 to 1932 , the Hungarian research team of Albert Szent-Györgyi and Joseph L. Svirbely , as well as the American team led by Charles Glen King in Pittsburgh , first identified the anti-scorbutic factor .	He named the unknown thing that prevented scurvy Vitamin C. From 1928 to 1933 , the Hungarian research team of Joseph L Svirbely and Albert Szent-Gyorgyi , and separately the American Charles Glen King , first took out vitamin C from food and showed it to be an acid they called ascorbic acid .
Vitamin C is found in high concentrations in immune cells , and is consumed quickly during infections .	Vitamin C was first discovered in 1928 .
Vitamin C concentrations in various food substances decrease with time in proportion to the temperature they are stored at and cooking can reduce the Vitamin C content of vegetables by around 60 % possibly partly due to increased enzymatic destruction as it may be more significant at sub-boiling temperatures .	As with fruit and vegetables cooking destroys the vitamin C content .
Radiation is typically used in addition to surgery and or chemotherapy but for certain types of cancer , such as early head and neck cancer , may be used alone .	For example , while there are good treatments for many kinds of cancer , there are still no treatments for certain kinds of cancer , or for some cancers once they progress ( or get worse ) to a certain stage of the disease .
The overall effectiveness ranges from being curative for some cancers , such as some leukemias , to being ineffective , such as in some brain tumors , to being needless in others , like most non-melanoma skin cancers .	Brain cancer starts in the brain with a brain tumor ) .
Hereditary cancers are primarily caused by an inherited genetic defect .	Mesothelioma is usually caused by exposure to asbestos .
For example , a benign tumor of smooth muscle cells is called a leiomyoma ( the common name of this frequently occurring benign tumor in the uterus is fibroid ) .	He called benign tumors ( tumors that are not made up of cancer cells ) oncos .
Many things are known to increase the risk of cancer , including tobacco use , dietary factors , certain infections , exposure to radiation , lack of physical activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .	Other things that are known to be able to cause cancer - or make a person more likely to get cancer - include : being exposed to lots of sunlight ; radiation ( including X-rays in large or many doses , and exposure to radiation in a nuclear power plant ) ; chemicals used in building and manufacturing ( for example , asbestos and benzene ) ; high-fat or low-fiber diets ; air and water pollution ; eating very little fruits and vegetables ; obesity ; not enough physical activity ; drinking too much alcohol ; and certain chemicals commonly used at home .
Routine screening is not recommended for bladder cancer , testicular cancer , ovarian cancer , pancreatic cancer , or prostate cancer .	Testicular cancer starts in the testicles , and is most common in young men .
Additionally , the vast majority of non-invasive cancers are non-melanoma skin cancers caused by non-ionizing ultraviolet radiation .	This helped them realize that diseased bone marrow could also be destroyed with radiation , which was a very important step in figuring out that leukemia ( a blood cancer ) can be treated with bone marrow transplants .
Some types of cancer are named for the size and shape of the cells under a microscope , such as giant cell carcinoma , spindle cell carcinoma , and small-cell carcinoma .	They used the same ways of studying cancer as Lane-Clayton , but they looked at a different kind of cancer : lung cancer .
There is no evidence that inflammation itself causes cancer , yet inflammation can contribute to proliferation , survival and migration of cancer cells by influencing the microenvironment around tumors .	A third major problem is that there are many different types of cancer , and each type has its own symptoms and causes .
Viruses are the usual infectious agents that cause cancer but bacteria and parasites may also have an effect .	When a person has cancer , their body has no control over cells which begin to split apart .
Millions of workers run the risk of developing cancers such as lung cancer and mesothelioma from inhaling asbestos fibers and tobacco smoke , or leukemia from exposure to benzene at their workplaces .	In 1956 , they published their results in a paper called `` Lung Cancer and Other Causes of Death In Relation to Smoking .
Studies have linked consumption of red or processed meat to an increased risk of breast cancer , colon cancer , and pancreatic cancer , a phenomenon which could be due to the presence of carcinogens in meats cooked at high temperatures .	For example , one study showed that if a person with lymphedema ( a swelling of the arm linked to breast cancer ) lifts weights , he may be able to fight his cancer better than somebody who does not lift weights .
For example , cancers of the liver parenchyma arising from malignant epithelial cells is called hepatocarcinoma , while a malignancy arising from primitive liver precursor cells is called a hepatoblastoma , and a cancer arising from fat cells is called a liposarcoma .	Cancer is a type of disease or disorder related to malignant tumors ( that is : body cells gone haywire and forming growths which are harmful for the body itself ) .
The symptoms of metastatic cancers depend on the location of the tumor , and can include enlarged lymph nodes ( which can be felt or sometimes seen under the skin and are typically hard ) , enlarged liver or enlarged spleen , which can be felt in the abdomen , pain or fracture of affected bones , and neurological symptoms .	In some cases , at least a part of the tumor can be taken out through surgery .
Non-fibrous particulate materials that cause cancer include powdered metallic cobalt and nickel , and crystalline silica ( quartz , cristobalite , and tridymite ) .	This historic paper was a comparative study , which tries to find out what causes a disease by looking at a group of people who have the disease and figuring out how they are different from another group that does not have the disease .
If it happens to strike a chromosome , it can break the chromosome , result in an abnormal number of chromosomes , inactivate one or more genes in the part of the chromosome that it hit , delete parts of the DNA sequence , cause chromosome translocations , or cause other types of chromosome abnormalities .	This included the use of amputation ( removing a part of the body completely ) or removing veins that ran in the direction of the tumor .
A 2011 Cochrane review came to slightly different conclusions with respect to breast cancer screening stating that routine mammography may do more harm than good .	This discovery made it clear once and for all that the old theories about body humors causing diseases were not correct .
The pituitary gland secretes nine hormones that regulate homeostasis and the secretion of other hormones .	In physiology , the endocrine system is a system of glands , each of which secretes a type of hormone directly into the bloodstream to regulate the body .
Pancreas is a mixed endocrine and exocrine gland and it secretes both enzymes and hormones .	Hormones are complex chemicals released from endocrine tissue into the bloodstream where they travel to target tissues and trigger a response .
Each type of exercise has its uses .	Because these types of exercise may use jerking motion , it is more important to do a long warm up and stretch before attempting these exercises .
Breathing shallowly or holding one 's breath while working out limits the oxygen supply to the muscles and the brain , decreasing performance and , under extreme stress , risking a black-out or a stroke by aneurysm .	There is a very small chance of blackout or stroke if the person exercising is straining too much and they hold their breath while doing the motion of an exercise .
As with other sports , weight trainers should avoid dehydration throughout the workout by drinking sufficient water , even while not thirsty .	As with many kinds of exercise , weight training people should drink enough water .
Effective weight training develops lean muscle , increasing your resting metabolic rate , helping your body burn fat .	When some people say `` no pain no gain '' they mean the tired feeling and small strain will help make you stronger .
In `` isotonic '' exercises the force applied to the muscle does not change ( while the length of the muscle decreases or increases ) while in `` plyometric '' exercises the length of the muscle stretches and contracts rapidly to increase the power output of a muscle .	Isotonic lifting is done with a smooth tempo during the reps. Plyometric weight training uses sudden motions to help people do things like jump higher or strike with more power .
Operant behavior operates on the environment and is maintained by conditioning of reflexive ( reflex ) behaviors which are also elicited by antecedent conditions , while classical conditioning is maintained by its antecedents and consequences .	Operant conditioning is different from Pavlov 's classical conditioning .
Behaviors conditioned through a classical conditioning procedure are not maintained by consequences .	The person or animal learns its behavior has a consequence .
The effects of schedules became , in turn , the basic experimental data from which Skinner developed his account of operant conditioning .	Here , the terms ` positive ' and ` negative ' are not used in their basic sense ; positive means that something is added , and negative means something is taken away : The idea of operant conditioning was first discovered by Edward Thorndike , and analyzed by B.F. Skinner .
The main coagulase-positive staphylococcus is Staphylococcus aureus , although not all strains of Staphylococcus aureus are coagulase positive .	Staphylococcus aureus is a staphylococcus bacterium that can cause dangerous or even fatal diseases .
Staphylococcal toxins are a common cause of food poisoning , as they can be produced in improperly-stored food .	It can also cause food poisoning .
It can also cause a type of septicemia called pyemia .	A staphylococcal infection ( also called staph infection ) is an infection caused by a Staphylococcus bacterium .
S. aureus is also implicated in toxic shock syndrome ; during the 1980s some tampons allowed the rapid growth of S. aureus , which released toxins that were absorbed into the bloodstream .	Staphylococcus aureus can also cause toxic shock syndrome by releasing toxins into the bloodstream .
Staphylococcus is a Gram-positive bacteria which includes several species that can cause a wide variety of infections in humans and other animals through infection or the production of toxins .	Staphylococcus can cause many different infections .
Problematically , Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) has become a major cause of hospital-acquired infections , and is being recognized with increasing frequency in community-acquired infections .	Because penicillin and cephalosporin are the most important drugs that doctors use to treat Staphylococcus aureus infections , doctors may not be able to cure people with MRSA .
It , along with other aero digestive reflexes such as reflexive pharyngeal swallowing , prevents something from entering the throat except as part of normal swallowing and helps prevent choking .	Gag reflex is a normal reflex in humans that prevents the passage of anything from the throat , except during normal swallowing .
In the case of the pharyngeal reflex : The gag reflex involves a brisk and brief elevation of the soft palate and bilateral contraction of pharyngeal muscles evoked by touching the posterior pharyngeal wall .	It is also named as pharyngeal reflex .
In biology , a hermaphrodite is an organism that has reproductive organs normally associated with both male and female sexes .	In plants , hermaphrodite is used for ` complete ' flowers with both male and female parts , and for plants which have bisexual reproductive units .
Another ten victims reported being raped by Savile while over the age of sixteen .	31 said that they were raped by Savile .
Thirteen others reported serious sexual assaults by Savile including four under 10-year-olds .	16 said they were under 16 when Savile raped them .
Former Royal Family press secretary Dickie Arbiter said Savile 's behavior had raised `` concern and suspicion '' when Savile acted as an informal marriage counsellor between Prince Charles and Princess Diana in the late 1980s , although no reports had been made .	In it several women said that Savile sexually abused them when they were teenagers .
London was not ready for Epstein 's first major commission - 18 large nude sculptures made in 1908 for the façade of Charles Holden 's building for the British Medical Association on The Strand ( now Zimbabwe House ) were initially considered shocking to Edwardian sensibilities , again mainly due to the perception that they were over-explicit sexually .	On view in the Strand , London near Trafalgar Square , are his sculptures for Zimbabwe House .
Sickle-cell anemia is also considered a recessive condition , but heterozygous carriers have increased resistance to malaria in early childhood , which could be described as a related dominant condition .	Sickle cell anemia is an example .
Birth defects are also called congenital anomalies .	If a genetic disorder is present from birth , it is a type of congenital defect .
Biden said he believed that life began at conception but that he would not impose his personal religious views on others .	Biden has said that his vice-presidency will not be like any other .
The coroner declared he succumbed as a result of `` natural causes '' brought on by a bleeding ulcer .	He died because of a bleeding ulcer that he had .
Although Reagan came close to death , the team 's quick action-and Parr 's decision to drive to the hospital instead of the White House-likely saved the president 's life , and within 30 minutes Reagan left the emergency room for surgery with a normal blood pressure .	There was a controversy at the White House when Reagan was at the hospital .
Carter Braxton was born on Newington Plantation in King and Queen County , Virginia on September 16 , 1736 , but wrongly reported as dead along with his mother , Mary Carter Braxton , who `` unhappily catching Cold , '' died shortly after his birth .	He was born on Newington Plantation in King and Queen County , Virginia and educated at the William and Mary .
Internists are qualified physicians with postgraduate training in internal medicine and should not be confused with `` interns '' , who are doctors in their first year of residency training ( officially the term intern is no longer in use ) .	Doctors of internal medicine , also called `` internists '' , are required to have included in their medical schooling and postgraduate training at least three years dedicated to learning how to prevent , diagnose , and treat diseases that affect adults .
Internal medicine or general medicine ( in Commonwealth nations ) is the medical specialty dealing with the prevention , diagnosis , and treatment of adult diseases .	Internal medicine is the branch and specialty of medicine concerning the diagnosis and nonsurgical treatment of diseases in adults , especially of internal organs .
Physicians specializing in internal medicine are called internists , or physicians ( without a modifier ) in Commonwealth nations .	Cardiologists , for example , are doctors of internal medicine who subspecialize in diseases of the heart .
A stroke in 1857 left the king partially paralyzed and largely mentally incapacitated , and his brother William served as regent from 1858 until the king 's death in 1861 , at which point he acceded to the throne himself as William I. Frederick William IV is buried , together with his wife , in the crypt underneath the Friedenskirche in the park of Sanssouci , Potsdam .	After a stroke in 1857 the king was partially paralyzed and largely mentally weak , therefore his brother William became regent from 1858 until the king 's death in 1861 , then he became king himself as William I. Frederick William IV of Prussia : Die Königin von Borneo .
Although the experiment fails disastrously and Sang-hyun is infected with the seemingly fatal disease , he makes a complete and rapid recovery after receiving a blood transfusion .	However , after receiving an unidentified blood transfusion , he came back to life .
Acromegaly most commonly affects adults in middle age , and can result in severe disfigurement , complicating conditions , and premature death if unchecked .	A number of medical conditions may cause the pituitary gland to make too much growth hormone , but the most common cause is a tumor on the pituitary gland called a pituitary adenoma ' Acromegaly is most commonly diagnosed in middle aged adults , and can result in severe disfigurement , serious complicating conditions , and early death if not treated .
Acromegaly ( \/ ˌækrɵˈmɛɡəli \/ ; from Ancient Greek άκρος akros `` extreme '' or `` extremities '' and μεγάλος megalos `` large '' ) is a syndrome that results when the anterior pituitary gland produces excess growth hormone ( GH ) after epiphyseal plate closure at puberty .	Acromegaly is a medical condition that happens when the anterior ( rear ) pituitary gland makes too much growth hormone ( GH ) , after a person has passed puberty .
Acromegaly is often associated with gigantism .	Acromegaly is hard to diagnose when it is just beginning .
In 1346 , King John was killed fighting at the Battle of Crécy , and Machaut , who was famous and much in demand , entered the service of various other aristocrats and rulers , including King John 's daughter Bonne ( who died of the Black Death in 1349 ) , her sons Jean de Berry and Charles ( later Charles V , Duke of Normandy ) , and others such as Charles II of Navarre .	After John of Luxemburg died during a battle in 1346 , Machaut worked for John 's daughter Bonne ( who later married King John II of France ) , then King Charles the Bad of Navarre , Charles of Normandy who became King Charles V in 1364 and the King of Cyprus .
Machaut survived the Black Death that devastated Europe , and spent his later years living in Reims composing and supervising the creation of his complete-works manuscripts .	The king traveled around Europe , fighting , and Machaut went with him , working as his secretary .
Chlorine dioxide was introduced as a drinking water disinfectant on a large scale in 1956 , when Brussels , Belgium , changed from chlorine to chlorine dioxide .	Chlorine dioxide can explode easily .
In addition to acting , Peppard was a pilot .	Peppard had lung cancer and died of pneumonia .
Another test of quality hashish , at least of the cold water screened hash and dry screened , is that the higher purity hash bubbles when it is heated and smoked .	When a person wants to use hashish , they usually smoke it by putting a small piece of hashish in a joint with tobacco or marijuana .
Hashish after burning should be white and soft ; hard , dark , cinder-like shapes may indicate impurities .	Hashish has much more of the chemical THC ( which is a short form for `` delta-9-tetra-hydro-cannabinol '' ) than marijuana .
The tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) content of hashish comes in wide ranges from almost none to 70 % , and that of hash oil from 30-90 % .	The end result is the THC compound being breathed in combined with air rather than the THC compound being breathed in with smoke .
A 2010 report from the US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) identified possible hazards to fetuses , infants , and young children .	A 2010 report from the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) said that contact with BPA could hurt fetuses ( unborn children ) , infants and young children .
A 2007 animal study found that low doses of BPA during development have persistent effects on brain structure , function and behavior in rats and mice .	A 2011 study , the first to examine BPA in a continuous low level exposure throughout the day , did find an increased absorption and accumulation of BPA in the blood of mice .
A 2006 animal study demonstrated a link between environmental estrogens and insulin resistance .	The studies indicating harm reported a variety of deleterious effects in rodent offspring exposed in the womb : abnormal weight gain , insulin resistance , prostate cancer , and too much mammary gland development .
Some , but not all , plastics that are marked with the Resin Identification Code 7 may be made with BPA . ''	Some stores stopped selling products made with BPA in 2008 because government reports said BPA was not safe for humans .
BPA exhibits hormone-like properties at high dosage levels that raise concern about its suitability in consumer products and food containers where exposure is orders of magnitude lower .	In 2009 , The Endocrine Society said it was worried about current human exposure to BPA .
Suffering from gout , King returned to England in October 1796 , and after regaining his health , and resuming his naval career , he was appointed to replace Captain John Hunter as the third Governor of New South Wales .	King became ill with gout , and in October 1796 Governor John Hunter let him go back to England to get medical treatment .
He encouraged smallpox vaccinations , was sympathetic to missionaries , strove to keep peace with the indigenous inhabitants , ordered the printing of Australia 's first book , New South Wales General Standing Orders , and encouraged the first newspaper , the Sydney Gazette .	He started a school for female orphans , a newspaper ( the Sydney Gazette ) , and even had people vaccinated for smallpox .
Although he worked hard for the good of New South Wales and left it very much better than he found it , the abuse from the officers harmed his reputation , and illness and the hard conditions of his service eventually wore him down .	There was no safe place to land on the island and this made it a difficult place to have a settlement .
Colloquially , the word vagina is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general .	The human vagina is a part of the female body .
During sexual arousal , the vagina expands in both length and width .	During sexual intercourse , the man 's penis is placed in the woman 's vagina .
The vaginal opening is at the caudal end of the vulva , behind the opening of the urethra .	The opening is found between the legs , inside the labium , behind the opening to the urethra , a tube leading to the bladder , and in front of the anus , the opening to the rectum .
If a woman stands upright , the vaginal tube points in an upward-backward direction and forms an angle of slightly more than 45 degrees with the uterus and of about 60 degrees to horizon .	It is the tube leading from the uterus ( womb ) to the outside of the body .
The vagina provides a path for menstrual blood and tissue to leave the body .	Menstrual fluid ( red , blood-filled liquid lost during a monthly period or menstruation ) leaves the body through the vagina .
In its normal state , there is anatomical variation in the length of the vagina of a woman of child-bearing age .	In a normal childbirth , babies come out through the vagina .
The vagina as a whole , however , lacks nerve endings , which generally hinders a woman 's ability to receive sufficient sexual stimulation , including orgasm , solely from vaginal sexual activity .	For orgasm in women , the vagina has significantly fewer nerve endings than the clitoris , and therefore rubbing or applying other consistent pressure against the clitoris is usually needed to help the woman have an orgasm .
The concentration of the nerve endings that lie close to the entrance of a woman 's vagina ( the lower third ) can provide pleasurable sensations during sexual activity when stimulated in a way that a woman enjoys , and many women additionally derive pleasure from a feeling of closeness and fullness during vaginal penetration .	When a woman is aroused , she feels pleasurable sensations in her genital region .
The vagina is a fibromuscular elastic tubular tract ( passage ) which is a sex organ and mainly functions for the facilitation of sexual intercourse and childbirth .	During sexual intercourse and childbirth , the vagina gets wider and bigger .
In mammals ( especially primates ) , menstruation , which is the periodic discharge of blood and mucosal tissue ( the endometrium ) from the uterus and vagina , is another primary function of the vagina and usually signals fertility .	The vagina releases blood and tissue during menstruation .
It , along with the inside of the vulva , is reddish pink in color , and it connects the superficial vulva to the cervix of the deep uterus .	The vagina is reddish pink in color , though colors may vary .
The elastic walls of the vagina stretch or contract , with support from the pelvic muscles , to the size of the inserted penis or other object , stimulating the penis and helping to cause the male to experience orgasm and ejaculation ; this in turn enables fertilization .	The vagina is warm and soft , and it places pressure on the man 's penis , which can feel good for both partners and usually makes the man have an orgasm after repeated thrusts .
Towards the end of the century , the growth of industry had turned the village of Homerton into a manufacturing center , lowering the quality of life of the students and leading to seven deaths between 1878 and 1885 from tuberculosis , smallpox and typhoid .	Its name comes from the area of Homerton in London .
Healthy gingiva fills and fits each interdental space , unlike the swollen gingiva papilla seen in gingivitis or the empty interdental embrasure seen in periodontal disease .	Healthy gums fill and fit each space between teeth .
Other colors like red , white , and blue can signify inflammation ( gingivitis ) or pathology .	Other colors like red , white , and blue can mean there is a problem .
Also popular during this time was the miasma theory , which held that diseases such as cholera or the Black Plague were caused by a miasma , a noxious form of `` bad air '' .	Pasteur 's theory was in direct opposition to contemporary theories of disease , such as the miasma theory .
With Louis Pasteur 's germ theory of disease , the fledgling science of immunology began to explain how bacteria caused disease , and how , following infection , the human body gained the ability to resist further infections .	This and other observations of acquired immunity was later exploited by Louis Pasteur in his development of vaccination and his proposed germ theory of disease .
The first written descriptions of the concept of immunity may have been made by the Athenian Thucydides who , in 430 BC , described that when the plague hit Athens `` the sick and the dying were tended by the pitying care of those who had recovered , because they knew the course of the disease and were themselves free from apprehensions .	The earliest known mention of immunity was during the plague of Athens in 430 BC .
Through these approaches , innate immunity can prevent the colonization , entry and spread of microbes .	Innate immunity protects the host against infection , but has no ` memory ' , and so gives no long-term immunity .
Other components of the immune system adapt themselves to each new disease encountered and are able to generate pathogen-specific immunity .	Vaccination builds on the natural immune system to make a person resist certain diseases .
It is not uncommon for migraine sufferers to experience more than one type of aura during the migraine .	There are different kinds of migraine .
The time between the appearance of the aura and the migraine lasts from a few seconds up to an hour .	With migraine , this time between the aura and the onset of migraine can be longer , up to about an hour .
When occurring , auras allow epileptics time to prevent injury to themselves and\/or others .	Some epileptics can prevent themselves from being hurt badly , because they often have an aura before having a seizure .
Auras can also be confused with sudden onset of panic , panic attacks or anxiety attacks creating difficulties in diagnosis .	These include strokes , and panic attacks , for example .
Some people experience aura without a subsequent migraine or seizure ( see silent migraine ) .	In some people , the way they perceive things ( or generally , how they feel ) changes , before they have an epileptic seizure , or before they develop migraine .
One of the most common auras are visual ( zigzag lines , bright lights , vibrating visual changes ) caused most likely by abnormal activity in the occipital lobe , which is the location of the visual cortex .	The symptoms may include visual problems such as losing vision for a short time , seeing zig-zag lines or floating spots , dizziness , a ringing noise in the ears ( tinnitus ) and problems speaking .
Dürrenmatt died from heart failure on 14 December 1990 in Neuchâtel .	Friedrich Dürrenmatt ( January 5 , 1921 in Konolfingen , canton of Bern ; † December 14 , 1990 in Neuchâtel ) was a writer and philosopher from Switzerland .
Similarly , Natural Resources Canada once stated that chrysotile , one of the fibers that make up asbestos , was not as dangerous as once thought .	White asbestos , also called chrysotile asbestos or serpentine asbestos , is one of the six types of asbestos .
In the late 1990s and early 2000s , the Canadian federal government continued to claim that chrysotile was much less dangerous than other types of asbestos .	It is considered by experts to be less dangerous than the other types of asbestos , but it is still a major health hazard and exposure can cause cancer and asbestosis .
That was the first and last time that Bo Diddley performed publicly after suffering a stroke .	Bo Diddley made many appearances on radio , television and in the movies .
Bo Diddley died on June 2 , 2008 of heart failure at his home in Archer , Florida .	In 2005 , Bo Diddley celebrated his 50th anniversary in music with successful tours of Australia and Europe and with coast-to-coast shows across North America .
Support for people with disabilities was improved over Windows NT 4.0 with a number of new assistive technologies , and Microsoft increased support for different languages and locale information .	There is lots of support for different languages and for people with disabilities .
Williams died in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day in 1953 at the age of 29 from heart failure exacerbated by pills and alcohol .	Williams died at age 29 on January 1 , 1953 , after a binge of alcohol drinking .
Carl wakes from a coma with amnesia .	Carl wakes from a coma but he does not remember everything that has happened over the past few years .
A fixation at this stage can result in a personality that is too rigid or one that is too disordered .	A toilet training conflict or fixation results in a rigid or disordered personality .
While performing with her band We the Living , Rachel 's 14-month-old daughter Leah , was diagnosed as having a profound hearing impairment .	While performing with her band We the Living , Rachel foun out that her 14-month old daughter , Leah , was deaf .
Hitchens died on 15 December 2011 from complications arising from oesophageal cancer , a disease that he acknowledged was more than likely due to his lifelong predilection for heavy smoking and drinking .	Hitchens died of oesophageal cancer .
As Alzheimer 's disease is highly prevalent , many notable people have developed it .	Many people die because of Alzheimer 's disease .
It was first described by German psychiatrist and neuropathologist Alois Alzheimer in 1906 and was named after him .	Alzheimer 's disease was named after Alois Alzheimer , a German psychiatrist and neuropathologist who first described the disease after studying the case of a middle-aged woman , Auguste Deter , who was a patient at a hospital in Frankfurt , Germany in 1906 .
The cause and progression of Alzheimer 's disease are not well understood .	While it is not yet known exactly what causes Alzheimer 's disease , there are a number of risk factors which may make a person more likely to get it .
Current treatments only help with the symptoms of the disease .	With time , the different symptoms of the disease become more marked .
The preclinical stage of the disease has also been termed mild cognitive impairment , but whether this term corresponds to a different diagnostic stage or identifies the first step of AD is a matter of dispute .	So the term preclinical phase is being used for research only .
Plaques are dense , mostly insoluble deposits of beta-amyloid peptide and cellular material outside and around neurons .	After this snipping the beta-amyloid peptide is released into the space outside the neuron and begins to stick to other beta-amyloid peptides .
Studies using MRI and PET have documented reductions in the size of specific brain regions in people with AD as they progressed from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer 's disease , and in comparison with similar images from healthy older adults .	Alzheimer 's Disease ( AD ) is a brain disease that slowly destroys brain cells .
There is no cure for the disease , which worsens as it progresses , and eventually leads to death .	As of 2013 , there is no cure for Alzheimer 's disease .
Although many older individuals develop some plaques and tangles as a consequence of ageing , the brains of people with AD have a greater number of them in specific brain regions such as the temporal lobe .	Although the symptoms of AD begin in older people it is not a normal part of aging .
Alzheimer 's disease has been identified as a protein misfolding disease ( proteopathy ) , caused by plaque accumulation of abnormally folded beta amyloid and tau amyloid proteins in the brain .	Two of the main features found in the brains of people with of Alzheimer 's disease , are neurobrillary tangles ( ` tangles ' for short ) , which are made up of a protein called tau , and senile plaques ( which are made mostly from another protein called beta-amyloid , they are also sometimes called beta-amyloid bundles or ` bundles ' for short ) .
An experimental vaccine was found to clear the amyloid plaques in early human trials , but it did not have any significant effect on dementia .	One that is helpful and one that causes the formation of beta-amyloid plaques .
This loss results in gross atrophy of the affected regions , including degeneration in the temporal lobe and parietal lobe , and parts of the frontal cortex and cingulate gyrus .	There are actually two parts of the hippocampus which is shaped like a horseshoe with one in the left part of the brain and the other in the right part of the brain .
One of these fragments gives rise to fibrils of beta-amyloid , which form clumps that deposit outside neurons in dense formations known as senile plaques .	These clumps , also known as ` tau tangles ' , are all that remain after a neuron has died .
The amyloid hypothesis traditionally points to the accumulation of beta-amyloid peptides as the central event triggering neuron degeneration .	The plaques are formed when beta-secretase snips the APP molecule at one end of the beta-amyloid peptide , releasing sAPPβ from the cell .
Although Alzheimer 's disease develops differently for every individual , there are many common symptoms .	Even though there is no cure for Alzheimer 's , there are new treatments which are being developed which would work better in the very first stages of the disease .
Numbers vary between studies but dementia costs worldwide have been calculated around $ 160 billion , while costs of Alzheimer 's disease in the United States may be $ 100 billion each year .	CAA is found in 30 % of people over the age of 60 years who do not have any dementia but is found in 90 % -96 % of people with Alzheimer disease and is severe in one third to two thirds of these cases .
There are no available treatments that stop or reverse the progression of the disease .	There are also treatments which slow down the disease so the damage to the brain does not happen as quickly .
Eight cognitive domains are most commonly impaired in AD-memory , language , perceptual skills , attention , constructive abilities , orientation , problem solving and functional abilities .	The disease affects different parts of the brain but has its worst effects on the areas of the brain that control memory , language , and thinking skills .
This form of the disease is known as early onset familial Alzheimer 's disease .	Alzheimer 's disease usually beigins affecting people between ages 60-65 , in Ms. Deter 's case - who was 55-years-old when she died - she had a form of what is now known as Early-onset Alzhiemer 's disease .
Learning a second language even later in life seems to delay getting Alzheimer disease .	The current lifetime risk for a 65-year-old person to get Alzheimer 's disease is estimated to be at 10.5 % .
Education delays the onset of AD syndrome , but is not related to earlier death after diagnosis .	There are also certain personal habits that people can learn which may help to delay the onset of the disease .
People who engage in intellectual activities such as reading , playing board games , completing crossword puzzles , playing musical instruments , or regular social interaction show a reduced risk for Alzheimer 's disease .	Anyone can get Alzheimer 's disease , rich people or poor famous people and unfamous people .
A systematic review in 2010 did not support an increased overall cancer risk in users of combined oral contraceptive pills , but did find a slight increase in breast cancer risk among current users , which disappears 5-10 years after use has stopped .	There are two major kinds of oral contraceptive pills .
Although the pill is sometimes prescribed to induce menstruation on a regular schedule for women bothered by irregular menstrual cycles , it actually suppresses the normal menstrual cycle and then mimics a regular 28-day monthly cycle , as noted earlier in this article .	Some of these conditions are : If a woman 's menstrual cycle is not regular , the Pill can make the woman menstruate on a regular schedule .
Contraceptive efficacy may be impaired by : 1 ) missing more than one active pill in a packet , 2 ) delay in starting the next packet of active pills ( i.e. , extending the pill-free , inactive or placebo pill period beyond 7 days ) , 3 ) intestinal malabsorption of active pills due to vomiting or diarrhea , 4 ) drug interactions with active pills that decrease contraceptive estrogen or progestogen levels .	The other only has progesterone ( these are called progesterone-only pills , or POPs ) .
The Inventor suffered a heart attack and died while in the act of giving a pair of real hands to Edward , leaving him `` unfinished '' forever .	He was left unfinished because the inventor died before giving him human hands .
Insect stings , antibiotics , and certain medicines produce a systemic allergic response that is also called anaphylaxis ; multiple organ systems can be affected , including the digestive system , the respiratory system , and the circulatory system .	This is called anaphylaxis .
Although peanut allergies are notorious for their severity , peanut allergies are not the most common food allergy in adults or children .	Some common food allergies are : Some common environmental allergies are :
An allergy is a hypersensitivity disorder of the immune system .	If it is a food allergy , the person may get an upset stomach .
Symptoms of food allergy include abdominal pain , bloating , vomiting , diarrhea , itchy skin , and swelling of the skin during hives .	They may cough and sneeze .
Although allergic contact dermatitis is termed an `` allergic '' reaction ( which usually refers to type I hypersensitivity ) , its pathophysiology actually involves a reaction that more correctly corresponds to a type IV hypersensitivity reaction .	An allergy is something which triggers an allergic reaction .
Skin allergies frequently cause rashes , or swelling and inflammation within the skin , in what is known as a `` wheal and flare '' reaction characteristic of hives and angioedema .	They may develop a rash called hives .
The dogs lead to increased interaction with other people .	The dog can lead the person around things that may be dangerous , such as moving cars or other things .
Abnormal psychology is the branch of psychology that studies unusual patterns of behavior , emotion and thought , which may or may not be understood as precipitating a mental disorder .	Abnormal psychology is often linked to mental disorders .
Both causes play a key role in the development of a psychological disorder .	He did not accept that evil spirits or astronomy were the causes of psychological disorders .
The medical or biological perspective holds the belief that most or all abnormal behavior can be attributed to a medical factor ; assuming all psychological disorders are diseases .	Some abnormal behavior was thought to be witchcraft .
There have also been different approaches in trying to classify mental disorders .	This is often also used to define some mental disorders .
These axes are as follows : The major international nosologic system for the classification of mental disorders can be found in the most recent version of the International Classification of Diseases , 10th revision ( ICD-10 ) .	An individual with a The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems ( ICD ) was created by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and is the universal diagnostic system for mental disorders .
Medical : The medical approach to abnormal psychology focuses on the biological causes on mental illness .	Galen 's focus was on the biological causes for mental disorders .
The standard abnormal psychology and psychiatry reference book in North America is the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association .	The North American reference book used by psychiatrists and psychologists to diagnose and treat psychological disorders is known as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) .
Most mental disorders are composed of several factors , which is why one must take into account several theoretical perspectives when attempting to diagnose or explain a particular behavioral abnormality or mental disorder .	Before diagnosing an individual with a specific mental disorder , a professional must first determine whether that individual does in fact suffer from a mental disorder .
The book called attention to the conditions which mental patients faced and helped to spark concern in the general public to create more humane mental health care in these overcrowded hospitals .	The organization provided training and support for mental patients and workers that cared for them .
Clinical psychology is the applied field of psychology that seeks to assess , understand and treat psychological conditions in clinical practice .	While new theories now exist , Hippocrates ' focus on mental processes and clinical practice was a revolutionary concept .
The DSM-IV TR identifies three key elements that must be present to constitute a mental disorder .	The DSM defines a mental disorder as a condition that : When using the DSM , a complete psychiatric diagnosis is split up into five dimensions , called `` axes '' , that relate to different characteristics of disability or disorder : The separate axes of the DSM are often linked together in the development of mental disorders .
It lists a set of disorders and provides detailed descriptions on what constitutes a disorder such as Major Depressive Disorder or anxiety disorder .	Its purpose is to help countries reduce the problems associated with mental disorders .
Michael also has cerebral palsy and is a spokesperson for the advocacy organization Reaching for the Stars .	Kutcher 's twin brother also has cerebral palsy .
In the early morning of 25 December 1977 , he died at home after suffering a stroke in his sleep .	He died of a stroke in his sleep , at the age of 88 .
Both Denkova and Staviski fell ill with the flu before the 2001 European Championships and she suffered more swelling but they competed at the event and finished 8th , their best result to that date .	After 2007 Worlds , Denkova and Staviski did not announce if they would retire , leaving it open .
As a result of the lockout , no Stanley Cup champion was crowned for the first time since the flu pandemic in 1919 .	In 1919 , the championship was canceled due to the ongoing Spanish flu pandemic .
Most recently , a girl in the UK had three heart attacks after drinking alcoholic shots containing Red Bull .	Red Bull started its own record label , Red Bull Records .
The sugars sucrose and glucose have been replaced by the sweeteners acesulfame K and aspartame\/sucralose .	Red Bull sugar-free also contains phenylalanine in place of sucrose and glucose .
An autopsy - also known as a post-mortem examination , necropsy ( particularly as to non-human bodies ) , autopsia cadaverum , or obduction - is a highly specialized surgical procedure that consists of a thorough examination of a corpse to determine the cause and manner of death and to evaluate any disease or injury that may be present .	An autopsy ( also called a post-mortem examination ) is a medical examination of a corpse to find out what killed it ( disease or injury ) .
That is , a new-onset episode of psychosis is not considered a symptom of a psychiatric disorder until other relevant and known causes of psychosis are properly excluded .	The treatment depends on the cause of the psychosis .
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή psyche , `` mind\/soul '' , and - ωσις - osis , `` abnormal condition or derangement '' ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind , and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality '' .	So literally , psychosis means unnatural condition of the soul .
The effects of an alcohol-related psychosis include an increased risk of depression and suicide as well as causing psychosocial impairments .	Psychosis is most associated with schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , depression , drug addiction and brain damage but it can be caused by a wide range of conditions .
Psychosis ( as a sign of a psychiatric disorder ) is a diagnosis of exclusion .	Psychosis is the name used in psychiatry for a number of conditions .
Medical and biological laboratory tests should exclude central nervous system diseases and injuries , diseases and injuries of other organs , illicit substances , toxins , and prescribed medications as causes of symptoms of psychosis before any psychiatric illness can be diagnosed .	Psychosis is not a disease but rather a name for a number of symptoms , that can be caused by different diseases and conditions .
While cannabis use is accepted as a contributory cause of schizophrenia by some , it remains controversial , with pre-existing vulnerability to psychosis emerging as the key factor that influences the link between cannabis use and psychosis .	For this reason , some people have said that psychosis may simply be an extreme case of something that is experienced by most .
These differing tissue specificities cause the differing clinical manifestations of the various forms of leishmaniasis .	The differences in the type of tissue affected are responsible for the different visible types of leishmaniasis .
For cutaneous disease paromomycin , fluconazole or pentamidine may be effective .	For the cutaneous form , paromomycin , fluconazole or pentamidine can help .
The cutaneous form of the disease is caused by more than 15 types of Leishmania .	It is spread by the bite of certain types of sandflies .
The day before her death , she made her physician promise to tell Wilson `` later '' that she hoped he would marry again ; she murmured at the end , '' ... take good care of my husband . ''	At the time of her death , she quietly said to the physician : '' ... take good care of my husband . ''
The connections between neurons are much more complex than those implemented in neural computing architectures .	A Neural network is an artificial system ( made of artificial neuron cells ) .
Hitler was aware of Röhm 's homosexuality .	Hitler knew of Röhm 's homosexuality for many years but said he had heard it for the first time in 1934 .
Although green tea does not raise the metabolic rate enough to produce immediate weight loss , a green tea extract containing polyphenols and caffeine has been shown to induce thermogenesis and stimulate fat oxidation , boosting the metabolic rate 4 % without increasing the heart rate .	In a study performed at Birmingham ( UK ) University , it was shown that average fat oxidation rates were 17 % higher after drinking of green tea extract than after a placebo was used .
Over the last few decades green tea has been subjected to many scientific and medical studies to determine the extent of its long-purported health benefits , with some evidence suggesting that regular green tea drinkers may have a lower risk of developing heart disease and certain types of cancer .	Green Tea seems to lower heart disease expectancy .
In March 1810 , when Keats was 14 , his mother died of tuberculosis , leaving the children in the custody of their grandmother .	Keats was the son of an inn-keeper who died when Keats was nine years old ; and his mother died of tuberculosis in 1810 .
John Keats died in Rome on 23 February 1821 and was buried in the Protestant Cemetery , Rome .	Though Keats was the youngest of these poets , he also died before the others : he suffered from tuberculosis and died in Rome at the age of 25 .
The primary route of transmission is through sexual contact ; it may also be transmitted from mother to fetus during pregnancy or at birth , resulting in congenital syphilis .	Congenital syphilis is when the bacteria is transmitted from a mother to her fetus during pregnancy , or when the baby is born .
One of the potential side effects of treatment is the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction .	Sometimes , people who are getting treatment for syphilis can have a side effect - a symptom or problem that the medication is not designed to cause - called the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction .
Tertiary syphilis may occur approximately 3 to 15 years after the initial infection , and may be divided into three different forms : gummatous syphilis ( 15 % ) , late neurosyphilis ( 6.5 % ) , and cardiovascular syphilis ( 10 % ) .	There are three different forms of tertiary syphilis .
Approximately 3 to 90 days after the initial exposure ( average 21 days ) a skin lesion , called a chancre , appears at the point of contact .	Later , a skin sore or lesion , called a chancre , appears at the place on the body that came into contact with the infected wounds .
Syphilis is thought to have infected 12 million people worldwide in 1999 , with greater than 90 % of cases in the developing world .	By 1999 syphilis infected about 12 million people worldwide .
It is further described as either early ( less than 1 year after secondary syphilis ) or late ( more than 1 year after secondary syphilis ) in the United States .	Latent syphilis is described as either early or late , depending on how long it has been since the person was in the secondary syphilis stage In the United States , latent syphilis is called `` early '' if it has been less than one year since the secondary stage .
Cardiovascular syphilis usually occurs 10-30 years after the initial infection .	The third type of tertiary syphilis - cardiovascular syphilis - usually happens 10 to 30 years after the person first got infected with syphilis .
Two-thirds of syphilitic infants are born without symptoms .	Two-thirds of infants with syphilis ( or two out of every three ) are born without any symptoms .
If a person is allergic , ceftriaxone may be used or penicillin desensitization attempted .	Doctors may also try penicillin desensitization - meaning that they start by giving the person a very small dose of penicillin , and bit by bit they increase the amount of penicillin they give ; sometimes this can keep the person from having an allergic reaction to the penicillin .
Secondary syphilis occurs approximately four to ten weeks after the primary infection .	The symptoms of secondary syphilis usually get better after three to six weeks .
The primary stage classically presents with a single chancre ( a firm , painless , non-itchy skin ulceration ) , secondary syphilis with a diffuse rash which frequently involves the palms of the hands and soles of the feet , latent syphilis with little to no symptoms , and tertiary syphilis with gummas , neurological , or cardiac symptoms .	In the primary stage , a person usually has just a firm , painless , non-itchy skin ulceration , or wound , called a `` chancre '' .
For neurosyphilis , due to the poor penetration of penicillin G into the central nervous system , those affected are recommended to be given large doses of intravenous penicillin for a minimum of 10 days .	Instead , people with neurosyphilis usually need to be given large doses of penicillin for at least 10 days , with the medicine given intravenously ( given with a needle as a shot into a vein ; this makes the medicine travel more directly into the central nervous system than a shot given into a muscle ) .
It may occur early , being either asymptomatic or in the form of syphilitic meningitis , or late as meningovascular syphilis , general paresis , or tabes dorsalis , which is associated with poor balance and lightning pains in the lower extremities .	Late neurosyphilis can also cause general paresis , which leads to dementia ( which causes problems with the way a person thinks , acts , and behaves toward other people ) and tabes dorsalis ( which causes poor balance and lightning-like pains in the lower extremities ( the parts of the body that are farthest away from the heart , like the feet ) ) .
After decreasing dramatically since the widespread availability of penicillin in the 1940s , rates of infection have increased since the turn of the millennium in many countries , often in combination with human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) .	Cases of syphilis decreased dramatically after penicillin became available in the 1940s , but since 2000 the rates of infection have increased .
Lymph node enlargement frequently ( 80 % ) occurs around the area of infection , occurring seven to 10 days after chancre formation .	The lymph nodes around the area that becomes infected usually become enlarged ( get bigger ) about 7 to 10 days after the chancre forms .
Syphilis can present in one of four different stages : primary , secondary , latent , and tertiary , and may also occur congenitally .	There are four stages of syphilis , the primary , secondary , latent , and tertiary stages .
However , it is tested for in many countries and thus the risk is low .	However , blood products are tested for syphilis in many countries , so in those countries there is only a low risk of getting syphilis this way .
It frequently starts within one hour and lasts for 24 hours , with symptoms of fever , muscles pains , headache , and tachycardia .	Some symptoms of the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction are fever , muscle pains , headache , and tachycardia ( meaning that the heart beats faster than usual ) This reaction is caused by proteins that are released from syphilis bacteria as they get broken open by antibiotic medication .
All of these lesions harbor bacteria and are infectious .	All these lesions are infectious : they can spread infection .
Syphilis can be effectively treated with antibiotics , specifically the preferred intramuscular penicillin G ( given intravenously for neurosyphilis ) , or else ceftriaxone , and in those who have a severe penicillin allergy , oral doxycycline or azithromycin .	Most people who have syphilis can be treated and cured with antibiotics .
Latent syphilis is defined as having serologic proof of infection without symptoms of disease .	A person qualifies as having latent syphilis when he has no symptoms of the disease , but blood tests show that he has syphilis .
Congenital syphilis may occur during pregnancy or during birth .	When a fetus or baby gets syphilis this way , it is called congenital syphilis .
The most common complication is syphilitic aortitis , which may result in aneurysm formation .	The most common symptom caused by cardiovascular syphilis is syphilitic aortitis , which can make the aorta - an important part of the heart - become dilated , or too big .
The risk of transmission from sharing needles appears limited .	Scientists think that there is also a fairly low risk of getting syphilis by sharing needles .
This has been attributed partly to unsafe sexual practices among men who have sex with men , increased promiscuity , prostitution , and decreasing use of condoms .	prostitution and promiscuity ( having sex with many different people ) .
It is thus transmissible by kissing near a lesion , as well as oral , vaginal , and anal sex .	Because of this , syphilis can be spread by kissing , and also through oral , vaginal , and anal sex .
Neurosyphilis is diagnosed by finding high numbers of leukocytes ( predominately lymphocytes ) and high protein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid in the setting of a known syphilis infection .	Syphilis is usually diagnosed with blood tests .
In 1985 , Golding and his wife moved to Tullimaar House at Perranarworthal , near Truro , Cornwall , where he died of heart failure , eight years later , on 19 June 1993 .	He died five years later , on 19 June 1993 , of heart failure in Cornwall .
For example , in a large study of a drug it may be shown that the drug has a statistically significant but very small beneficial effect , such that the drug is unlikely to help the patient noticeably .	For another example , if we want to know whether a certain drug can help lower blood pressure , we could give the drug to people for some time and measure their blood pressure before and after .
It explores the moral responsibility - symbolized by the patients ' malignant tumors - of those implicated in the suffering of their fellow citizens during Stalin 's Great Purge , when millions were killed , sent to labor camps , or exiled .	It explores the moral responsibility of those stood by whilst their fellow citizens were arrested , sent to labor camps , exiled or executed .
Medical personnel worked nearly 30 minutes to stabilize his vitals , but the lack of oxygen to his brain caused him to slip into a coma .	Then he fell into a coma .
Sunnyland Slim died in March 1995 in Chicago , after complications from renal failure , at the age of 88 .	Sunnyland Slim was one of the most important persons in Chicago blues history , but he really never became a star because he did most of his work as sideman .
Common forms of nicotine replacement therapy are nicotine patches ( which transdermally administers nicotine ) and nicotine gum ( which orally administers nicotine ) .	Common methods include nicotine patches and chewing gums with nicotine in them .
Nicotine gum , nicotine sprays , nicotine sublingual tablets , and nicotine lozenges administer nicotine orally .	The electronic cigarette gives nicotine , propylene glycol , and sometimes flavors or smells .
His early work in this area included studies of the structure of hemoglobin .	This work led scientists in the UK to come up with the double-helix of DNA .
D. , ( December 10 , 1787 - September 10 , 1851 ) was a renowned American pioneer in the education of the deaf .	Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet ( December 10 , 1787 - September 10 , 1851 ) was an American teacher and the founder of the American School for the Deaf .
In contrast , the Warren Commission concluded that one of the three shots missed , one of the shots hit President Kennedy and then struck Governor Connally , and a third shot struck President Kennedy in the head , killing him .	The second bullet struck him in his head .
Additionally , the Warren Commission said of the three shots they concluded were fired that `` a substantial majority of the witnesses stated that the shots were not evenly spaced .	But they say that there were at least four shots fired .
A ten-month investigation from November 1963 to September 1964 by the Warren Commission concluded that Kennedy was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald , acting alone , and that Jack Ruby also acted alone when he killed Oswald before he could stand trial .	The man who murdered Oswald , Jack Ruby , was also said to have acted alone .
Governor Connally also reacted after the same bullet penetrated his back just below his right armpit , creating an oval entry wound , impacted and destroyed four inches of his right fifth rib , exited his chest just below his right nipple , creating a two-and-a-half inch oval sucking-air chest wound , entered his arm just above his right wrist , cleanly shattered his right radius bone into eight pieces , exited just below the wrist at the inner side of his right palm , and finally lodged in his left inner thigh .	The first bullet struck him in the upper back and exited through his throat .
The mean penis size is slightly greater than the median size .	Human penis size is described by length and circumference of penis .
Perceptions of penis size are culture-specific .	Age does not negatively correlate with penis size .
Ancient Rome may have had a contrary view , and a larger penis size was preferred in medieval Arabic literature .	In medieval Arabic literature , a longer penis was preferred , but Afro-Arab author Al-Jahiz wrote : `` If the length of the penis were a sign of honor , then the mule would belong to the ( honorable tribe of ) Quraysh '' .
However , the mean of an erect human penis is approximately 12.9-15 .0 cm ( 5.1-5 .9 in ) in length .	The arithmetic mean human penis is approximately 12.9 to 15 centimetres ( 5.1 to 5.9 in ) in length , the circumference is approximately 12.3 centimetres ( 4.8 in ) .
Length of the flaccid penis does not necessarily correspond to length of the erect penis ; some smaller flaccid penises grow much longer , while some larger flaccid penises grow comparatively less .	Doctors induce erection or stretch the flaccid penis as far as possible .
Several scientific studies have been performed on the erect length of the adult penis .	The circumference is measured on erect penis : just below the glans penis , in the middle of the shaft , and at the base .
When compared to other primates , including large primates such as the gorilla , the human penis is largest , both in absolute terms and relative to the rest of the body .	It is larger than in any other primate .
When he was suffering from asthma , a doctor prescribed him heroin , to which he soon became addicted .	He had been addicted to heroin after being prescribed morphine for his asthma and bronchitis many years earlier .
In March 1887 , when Crowley was 11 , his father died of tongue cancer .	Crowley died of a respiratory infection in a Hastings boarding house on 1 December 1947 at the age of 72 .
The ketogenic diet is a high-fat , adequate-protein , low-carbohydrate diet that in medicine is used primarily to treat difficult-to-control ( refractory ) epilepsy in children .	A ketogenic diet can be good for losing weight for most people , and is very good for treating seizures .
An elevated level of ketone bodies in the blood , a state known as ketosis , leads to a reduction in the frequency of epileptic seizures .	This state of having a lot of ketone bodies in your blood is called `` Ketosis . ''
Disproven hypotheses include systemic acidosis ( high levels of acid in the blood ) , electrolyte changes and hypoglycemia ( low blood glucose ) .	Too much protein reduces the ketone bodies in your blood and blocks fat burning .
In mammals , the testes are often contained within an extension of the abdomen called the scrotum .	Male mammals , including men , have two testicles , supported in a sac of skin below the penis called the scrotum .
The testicle ( from Latin testiculus , diminutive of testis , meaning `` witness '' of virility , plural testes ) is the male gonad in animals .	As well as being chemical-producing glands , testicles are gonads .
The primary functions of the testes are to produce sperm ( spermatogenesis ) and to produce androgens , primarily testosterone .	And because he can not make the male hormone testosterone , he becomes less like a male .
In mammals with external testes it is most common for one testicle to hang lower than the other .	Nearly all men have one testicle that hangs lower than the other one .
After puberty , the volume of the testes can be increased by over 500 % as compared to the pre-pubertal size .	Doctors can measure the volume of testicles in two ways : Sometimes the size of a man 's testicles changes .
During mammalian development , the gonads are at first capable of becoming either ovaries or testes .	Most glands , like women 's ovaries , are inside the body , but testicles are outside the main part of the body .
Both functions of the testicle are influenced by gonadotropic hormones produced by the anterior pituitary .	Like other glands , testicles make chemical substances , called hormones that keep the body working .
The developing sperm travel through the seminiferous tubules to the rete testis located in the mediastinum testis , to the efferent ducts , and then to the epididymis where newly created sperm cells mature ( see spermatogenesis ) .	Testicles are a type of organ called glands .
In most cases ( 97 % full-term , 70 % preterm ) , both testes have descended by birth .	Size in men Most men 's testicles are from 14 cm ³ to 35 cm ³ .
The presence of both testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone ( FSH ) is needed to support spermatogenesis .	( Women 's bodies make some testosterone too , but they make more female hormone called estrogen . )
Blood supply and lymphatic drainage of the testes and scrotum are distinct : Many anatomical features of the adult testis reflect its developmental origin in the abdomen .	Testicles are a type of organ called glands .
The testes grow in response to the start of spermatogenesis .	The testicles grow larger to make more sperm .
Duplications arise from an event termed unequal crossing-over that occurs during meiosis between misaligned homologous chromosomes .	In classical genetics it may occur as an error in crossing-over during meiosis , or the duplication of an entire chromosome .
Through a combination of increased sequence coverage and abnormal mapping orientation , it is possible to identify duplications in genomic sequencing data .	Recent genomic sequence data show that duplicated genes are common in all organisms surveyed .
Some deficiencies in this stage of development are that children who are about 3-4 years old often display what is called egocentrism , which means the child is not able to see someone else 's point of view , they feel as if every other person is experiencing the same events and feelings that they are experiencing .	Adults thought children needed to be taught to be a person .
Poor nutrition and frequent injury and disease can reduce the individual 's adult stature , but the best environment can not cause growth to a greater stature than is determined by heredity .	Children were seen in a better way and got more respect from adults .
Flexibility is also impacted by nutrition and exercise as well .	People respected children more and treated them better .
Zinc deficiency has also been shown to have a negative impact on childhood growth and development .	At the time of the Reformation , children were thought to be born evil .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has a six-stage classification that describes the process by which a novel influenza virus moves from the first few infections in humans through to a pandemic .	The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has developed a plan to prepare globally the fight against influenza .
He died in Mestre as a result of nephritis .	Del Monaco died in Mestre , near Venice , at the age of 67 .
Also , if you stare at a square of color for a long period of time ( thirty seconds to a minute ) , and then look at a white paper or wall , you will briefly see an afterimage of the square in its complementary color .	Primary colors and secondary colors are typically paired in this way : If a person stares at a single color for about a minute then looks at a white surface , an afterimage of the complementary color will appear .
After the opium was surrendered , trade was restarted on the strict condition that no more drugs would be smuggled into China .	However , opium can also be used as a drug that changes the user 's state of mind .
The prolonged inhalation of asbestos fibers can cause serious illnesses including malignant lung cancer , mesothelioma , and asbestosis ( a type of pneumoconiosis ) .	Asbestos is extremely dangerous for human health , as it can cause lung diseases such as asbestosis , emphysema and mesothelioma if the fibers get loose in the air .
Presumed asbestos containing materials are building materials that are known to have been commonly manufactured using asbestos , such as floor tiles or thermal system insulation , and were installed before 1980 .	People have used asbestos throughout history .
This includes , but is not limited to , the removal of asbestos-containing wallboard , floor tile and sheeting , roofing and siding shingles , and construction mastics .	These properties made it very attractive as a component in building materials and other products such as insulation and automobile brake pads .
Such work is divided into four categories : Class I asbestos work means activities involving the removal of thermal system insulation and surfacing asbestos containing materials ( ACM ) and presumed asbestos containing materials ( PACM ) .	Ancient Egyptian people used asbestos .
Solti died suddenly , in his sleep , on 5 September 1997 while on holiday in Antibes in the south of France .	He had many plans for concerts and recordings when he suddenly died of a heart attack on 5 September 1997 in Antibes , France He was given a state funeral , and was buried next to Bartók who had been his teacher and had helped him a lot .
As English settlers died from harsh conditions , more and more Africans were brought to work as laborers .	Many Africans were brought to the United States as slaves .
Ivan Petrovich Pavlov ( Russian : Ива́н Петро́вич Па́влов , IPA : ( ɪˈvan pʲɪˈtrovʲɪt͡ɕ ˈpavləf ) ( listen ) ; 26 September ( O.S. 14 September ) 1849 - 27 February 1936 ) was a Russian physiologist known primarily for his work in classical conditioning .	Ivan Petrovich Pavlov ( 14 September 1849 - 27 February 1936 ) was a Russian physiologist , psychologist , and physician .
Pavlov 's work with classical conditioning was of huge influence to how humans perceive themselves , their behavior and learning processes and his studies of classical conditioning continue to be central to modern behavior therapy .	Pavlov is widely known for first describing classical conditioning .
A well-written polymorphic virus therefore has no parts which remain identical between infections , making it very difficult to detect directly using signatures .	This is how the computer virus got its name .
While some studies have indicated relaxation training is useful for some medical conditions , autogenic training has limited results or has been the result of few studies .	The word `` training '' is usually used when talking about sports , but it is also used for training for a job or in `` basic training '' .
The temporal lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals .	The temporal lobe is involved in auditory perception and is home to the primary auditory cortex .
Miliband joined the Royal Navy in June 1943 .	Miliband had heart disease .
He suffered a heart attack soon after the move , and did not enjoy the administrative responsibilities as a head of department .	He died of a heart attack in London .
It also works to improve global health through the control and eradication of diseases such as Guinea worm disease , river blindness , malaria , trachoma , lymphatic filariasis , and schistosomiasis .	He works for disease prevention and disease eradication in developing countries .
Each hemisphere 's V1 receives information directly from its ipsilateral lateral geniculate nucleus .	This is where the messages arrive from the lateral geniculate nuclei , which are relay stations for information from the retina .
The visual cortex of the brain is the part of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing visual information .	It is the part of the brain that allows vision .
In this version of the story , Faust is an elderly scholar and alchemist who is frustrated at his inability to help the plague-stricken population .	In the early versions of the Faust story : in ballads , dramas and puppet-plays , Faust is always damned ( meaning he will have to go to Hell ) .
Muscle atrophy can be opposed by the signaling pathways which induce muscle hypertrophy , or an increase in muscle size .	Muscle atrophy can be treated
There are many diseases and conditions which cause a decrease in muscle mass , known as atrophy , including : Dejerine Sottas syndrome ( HSMN Type III ) , inactivity , as seen when a cast is put on a limb , or upon extended bedrest ( which can occur during a prolonged illness ) ; cachexia - which is a syndrome that is a co-morbidity of cancer and congestive heart failure ; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ; burns , liver failure , etc. .	Muscle atrophy can also be caused by Dejerine Sottas syndrome , cachexia , burns , liver failure , and starvation .
Muscle atrophy is defined as a decrease in the mass of the muscle ; it can be a partial or complete wasting away of muscle .	With muscle atrophy , muscles can waste away completely , or only partly .
When a muscle atrophies , this leads to muscle weakness , since the ability to exert force is related to mass .	As the person loses muscle strength , he will lose the ability to do more and more things .
They also need to have their ears cleaned regularly , or ear infections might occur .	It is also important to clean a Goldens ears regularly because their long ears do not give the ear canal a chance to breathe .
Radle was born in Tulsa , Oklahoma and died in 1980 from a kidney infection , exacerbated by the effects of alcohol and narcotics .	In May 30 , 1980 , Radle died at age 37 , of problems from a kidney infection caused by his alcoholism and drug addiction .
OSHA 's mission is to `` assure safe and healthful working conditions for working men and women by setting and enforcing standards and by providing training , outreach , education and assistance '' .	Its mission is to prevent work-related injuries , illnesses , and deaths by making and enforcing rules ( called standards ) for workplace safety and health .
Curie died in 1934 at the sanatorium of Sancellemoz ( Haute-Savoie ) , France , due to aplastic anemia brought on by exposure to radiation - mainly , it seems , during her World War I service in mobile X-ray units created by her .	Curie died of aplastic anemia .
A medication or medicine is a drug taken to cure and\/or ameliorate any symptoms of an illness or medical condition , or may be used as preventive medicine that has future benefits but does not treat any existing or pre-existing diseases or symptoms .	Most of the time drugs are taken to treat a disease , or other medical condition .
National laws prohibit the use of many different recreational drugs and medicinal drugs that have the potential for recreational use are heavily regulated .	Drugs that are taken to treat a disease or condition are usually called `` therapeutic '' , drugs that are taken for fun are called `` recreational '' drugs .
Drugs may be prescribed for a limited duration , or on a regular basis for chronic disorders .	Aspirin is often prescribed against fever , or as an analgesic .
In female placental mammals , the urethra is shorter and emerges at the female external urethral orifice above the vaginal opening .	The male urethra has three sections :
The male urethra is the conduit for semen during sexual intercourse .	In male mammals , the urethra is also a part of the reproductive system , because males use it as a tube for sperm during sex .
In male placental mammals , the urethra travels through the penis , and carries semen as well as urine .	The urethra is part of the urinary system in mammals .
The meatus is located 1.0-1 .5 cm below the clitoris .	In women , the urethra is 2.5-4 cm ( 1-1 .5 in ) long .
The pelvic part of the sinus forms the prostatic urethra and epithelium as well as the membranous urethra and bulbo urethral glands in the male and the membranous urethra and part of the vagina in females .	In human anatomy , men have longer urethras then women .
In August 1923 , Harding suddenly collapsed and died in California .	He died of a heart attack in 1923 while he was the president .
As Eiberg said : `` The SNP rs12913832 ( of the Herc2 gene ) is found to be associated with the brown and blue eye color , but this single DNA variation can not explain all the brown eye color variation from dark brown over hazel to blue eyes with brown spots . ''	Mutations ( SNPs ) to these genes account for much of the variation seen in eye color .
Exclusive use of unfermented grape juice is common in Baptist , Presbyterian churches , the United Methodist Church , Seventh-day Adventists , Christian Churches\/Churches of Christ , Churches of Christ , some Lutherans , Assemblies of God , Pentecostals , Evangelicals , the Christian Missionary Alliance , and other American independent Protestant churches. , Risk of infectious disease transmission related to use of a common communion cup is low , to the point of being undetectable .	In the Latter Day Saints or `` Mormon '' Church , followers eat small pieces of bread and drink water .
On October 3 , 2013 , Bieber announced that he would release a new song every Monday for 10 weeks as a lead-up to the film Justin Bieber 's Believe , which entered production in 2012 and was released on December 25 , 2013 .	In December 2013 Bieber said that he is going to stop making music .
Sometimes one eye may change color following certain diseases or injuries .	Or , various diseases and medical conditions may result in changes in eye color .
The Chernobyl Forum predicts the eventual death toll could reach 4,000 among those exposed to the highest levels of radiation ( 200,000 emergency workers , 116,000 evacuees and 270,000 residents of the most contaminated areas ) ; this figure is a total causal death toll prediction , combining the deaths of approximately 50 emergency workers who died soon after the accident from acute radiation syndrome , nine children who have died of thyroid cancer and a future predicted total of 3940 deaths from radiation-induced cancer and leukemia .	A 2005 IAEA report tells of 56 direct deaths , 47 of those were accident workers and 9 were children who died of thyroid cancer .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood , semen , vaginal fluid , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .	The body liquids that carry HIV are blood , semen , liquid from the vagina , and breast milk .
The human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) , a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .	Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a type of virus called a retrovirus , which infects the human immune system ( the system in the body which is in charge of fighting off illness ) .
HIV can infect a variety of immune cells such as CD4 + T cells , macrophages , and microglial cells .	CD4 cells are necessary to help protect the body from infections and cancer .
Adaptation to use normal cellular machinery to enable transmission and productive infection has also aided the establishment of HIV-2 replication in humans .	Although the supplements may not help ease all negative symptoms , they offer some benefits and are safe for HIV-infected patients .
HIV can infect dendritic cells ( DCs ) by this CD4-CCR5 route , but another route using mannose-specific C-type lectin receptors such as DC-SIGN can also be used .	HIV may cause AIDS ( a collection of diseases and symptoms , or problems in the body ) by eventually killing the white blood cells , which a healthy body uses to fight off disease .
HIV-1 infection causes chronic ongoing inflammation and production of reactive oxygen species .	HIV causes a person to become more prone to illness , so infected people need treatment options .
In patients infected with subtype B HIV-1 , there is often a co-receptor switch in late-stage disease and T-tropic variants appear that can infect a variety of T cells through CXCR4 .	It is possible that a person can get infected with HIV if any body liquid with the virus gets into their body .
HIV is different in structure from other retroviruses .	People also can not get HIV from touching light switches , using toilets , or drinking from the same glass as a person with HIV .
For the person with a terminal illness , a caregiver is often needed .	Medical conditions such as AIDS are not called terminal illnesses because the patient may live for many years before eventually dying of the illness .
Copper ( II ) oxide can cause a toxic build-up of copper in a small subset of the population with Wilson 's disease .	Copper ( II ) oxide is a black solid .
While Gibson was still a young child , a little over a year into his stay at Pines Elementary , his father choked to death in a restaurant while on a business trip .	Gibson 's mother died when he was eighteen years old .
Most human contractions of the avian flu are a result of either handling dead infected birds or from contact with infected fluids .	It is called influenza when it infects humans .
All known viruses that cause influenza in birds belong to the species influenza A virus .	The virus , called influenza A or type A , usually lives in birds , but sometimes infects mammals , including humans .
`` Bird flu '' is a phrase similar to `` swine flu , '' `` dog flu , '' `` horse flu , '' or `` human flu '' in that it refers to an illness caused by any of many different strains of influenza viruses that have adapted to a specific host .	One type of bird flu , called Spanish flu , killed 50 to 100 million people in 1918\/1919 .
But with the domestication of chickens and turkeys , humans have created species subtypes ( domesticated poultry ) that can catch an avian flu virus adapted to waterfowl and have it rapidly mutate into a form that kills over 90 % of an entire flock in days , can spread to other flocks and kill 90 % of them , and can only be stopped by killing every domestic bird in the area .	But some types kill birds , and a few kill humans and other mammals .
Drug and alcohol use escalated tension between the three members , and conflicts between Bruce and Baker eventually led to Cream 's demise .	While Cream were popular and had several hit records , problems between Baker and Bruce , and the increasing drug use of all three caused tensions that eventually broke the band up in 1969 .
During July 1890 ( not May 1890 , as previously thought ) , Franck was riding in a cab which was struck by a horse-drawn trolley , injuring his head and causing a short fainting spell .	In 1890 , Franck was knocked down by a horse tram while crossing the road .
Genes hold the information to build and maintain an organism 's cells and pass genetic traits to offspring .	It is said that genes cause genetic effects in our bodies .
It is used extensively by the scientific community as a name given to some stretches of deoxyribonucleic acids ( DNA ) and ribonucleic acids ( RNA ) that code for a polypeptide or for an RNA chain that has a function in the organism .	These instructions usually code for a particular protein .
Red blood cells ( RBCs ) , also called erythrocytes , are the most common type of blood cell and the vertebrate organism 's principal means of delivering oxygen ( O2 ) to the body tissues via the blood flow through the circulatory system .	Red blood cells are red because they have hemoglobin in them .
They lack a cell nucleus and most organelles , in order to accommodate maximum space for hemoglobin .	This gives more space for hemoglobin .
Myoglobin , a compound related to hemoglobin , acts to store oxygen in muscle cells .	The hemoglobin absorbs oxygen in the lungs , travels through blood vessels and brings oxygen to all other cells via the heart .
There has been an acceptance in recent years that abdominal fat and weight around the abdomen constitute a greater health risk , commonly known as central obesity .	This fact is commonly known as central obesity .
Most 3D scanners suitable for BVI require that the subject is scanned for a series of images under varying lighting conditions ( various projected patterns ) , to determine body shape and weight distribution data for individual patient and statistical analysis and BVI is currently under evaluation by government agencies in the UK as a possible long-term replacement for BMI .	Different lighting as well as patterns projected onto the body are used to determine the body shape and the distribution of the weight in the body of the patient .
BVI was conceived as a potential replacement for BMI at the turn of the millennium and after preliminary development , initial validation was undertaken by Heartlands Hospital , an NHS Obesity Centre in the UK .	The BVI is currently being tested in different hospitals in the US and Europe ; a two-year project was started to see whether it would be as useful as the BMI .
Dietary causes account for about 12 % of gout , and include a strong association with the consumption of alcohol , fructose-sweetened drinks , meat , and seafood .	Drinking alcohol or fructose-sweetened drinks , and eating meat and seafood can can be causes of this disease .
They are not recommended , however , in those with certain other health problems , such as gastrointestinal bleeding , renal failure , or heart failure .	NSAIDs are not recommended for people with certain other health problems such as bleeding from the stomach , esophagus or intestines , renal failure , or heart failure .
This is believed partly due to their effect in reducing insulin resistance .	These things reduce insulin resistance and may reduce cases of gout .
They are , however , not recommended if a person has a history of kidney stones .	Uricosuric drugs are not recommended if the person has a history of renal stones .
Other triggers include physical trauma and surgery .	Injuries and surgery may also start an attack of gout .
Metabolic syndrome , a combination of abdominal obesity , hypertension , insulin resistance and abnormal lipid levels , occurs in nearly 75 % of cases .	Metabolic syndrome happens along with nearly 75 % of all cases of gout .
The risk , however , varies depending on the degree of hyperuricemia .	The risk of getting gout depends on the seriousness of the hyperuricemia .
Clinical diagnosis may be confirmed by seeing the characteristic crystals in joint fluid .	Doctors decide a patient has gout if they find crystals in the joint fluid .
In rare cases of ectopic pregnancy , there may be two fertilized eggs , one outside the uterus and the other inside .	An ectopic pregnancy is a when an embryo implants itself outside the uterus .
The serum hCG ratios and logistic regression models appear to be better than absolute single serum hCG level .	There are also blood tests for the pregnancy hormone hCG .
The advent of methotrexate treatment for ectopic pregnancy has reduced the need for surgery ; however , surgical intervention is still required in cases where the Fallopian tube has ruptured or is in danger of doing so .	If the fallopian tube is broken , it will cause internal bleeding and possibly shock and fainting .
In cases of pregnancy of unknown location and a history of heavy bleeding , is has been estimated that approximately 6 % have an underlying ectopic pregnancy .	For ectopic pregnancies pain in the pelvis and bleeding from the vagina is also common .
A common misdiagnosis is of a normal intrauterine pregnancy is where the pregnancy is implanted laterally in an arcuate uterus , potentially being misdiagnosed as an interstitial pregnancy .	In a normal pregnancy the embryo usually implants itself in the uterus .
Megrahi died of prostate cancer in Libya on 20 May 2012 .	Megrahi died almost three years later .
Posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) may develop after a person is exposed to one or more traumatic events , such as sexual assault , serious injury , or the threat of death .	Post-traumatic stress disorder ( sometimes also written Posttraumatic stress disorder , often shortened to PTSD ) is an anxiety disorder .
Panic and generalized anxiety disorders and PTSD share 60 % of the same genetic variance .	In the US , the prevalence of PTSD - the percentage of people who have the condition - is about 8 % .
Among their findings were : They also identified certain protective factors , such as : Glass and Jones found early intervention to be a critical preventive measure : Studies have shown that those prepared for the potential of a traumatic experience are more prepared to deal with the stress of a traumatic experience and therefore less likely to develop PTSD .	PTSD has been recognized in the past by different names , like shell shock , traumatic war neurosis , or post-traumatic stress syndrome ( PTSS ) .
While benzodiazepines can alleviate acute anxiety , there is no consistent evidence that they can stop the development of PTSD , or are at all effective in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder .	( If the person 's symptoms have lasted for less than a month , Acute Stress Disorder is usually diagnosed instead of PTSD ) .
PTSD is believed to be caused by the experience of a wide range of traumatic events and , in particular if the trauma is extreme , can occur in persons with no predisposing conditions .	The traumatic event caused the person to be physically hurt or violated , or it put the person or others around him in danger of being hurt or killed .
Emergency room expression of the FKPB5 mRNA following trauma was shown to indicate a later development of PTSD .	They conclude that in typical cases , Traumatic Brain Injury `` trumps '' the diagnosis of PTSD .
DNA damage has been one of the many causes in diseases related to aging .	Curing age-related diseases is one approach , and slowing down the underlying processes of aging with the help of physical exercises is another .
In 1673 , during a production of his final play , Le Malade Imaginaire ( The Imaginary Invalid ) , Molière , who suffered from pulmonary tuberculosis , was seized by a coughing fit and a hemorrhage while playing the hypochondriac Argan .	Molière 's last play was Le Malade Imaginaire , called in English The Hypochondriac .
Suffering in her last years from debilitating myalgic encephalomyelitis , she traveled to Switzerland to undertake an assisted suicide at the age of 87 in 2009 .	She did not want to suffer any more , so she traveled to Switzerland where she was allowed to have an assisted suicide .
As a man nears orgasm during stimulation of the penis , he feels an intense and highly pleasurable pulsating sensation of neuromuscular euphoria .	When a man has an orgasm , he feels a very strong and enjoyable feeling in his penis and groin , and sometimes in all of his body .
The process takes from three to ten seconds , and produces a pleasurable feeling .	The friction caused by this movement , together with the warmth and pressure of the vagina , causes the man to have pleasurable feelings in the penis , which grow stronger and stronger until the man has an orgasm , at which time semen then shoots out from the end of the penis into the woman 's vagina .
Though generally reported that women do not experience a refractory period and thus can experience an additional orgasm , or multiple orgasms , soon after the first one , some sources state that both men and women experience a refractory period because women may also experience a period after orgasm in which further sexual stimulation does not produce excitement .	Orgasm may also encourages a woman to have sex more often as it feels good , increasing the chances of pregnancy .
Human orgasms usually result from physical sexual stimulation of the penis in males ( typically accompanying ejaculation ) , and the clitoris in females .	In a man , an orgasm usually happens at the same time as an ejaculation , which is a release of semen through the penis , that ca n't be stopped .
The prostate produces a secretion that forms one of the components of ejaculate .	These reactions may cause the man to ejaculate more quickly or to produce more semen .
Clitoral orgasms are easier to achieve because the glans of the clitoris , or clitoris as a whole , has more than 8,000 sensory nerve endings , which is as many ( or more in some cases ) nerve endings present in the human penis or glans penis .	A woman 's orgasm begins in her clitoris , which is the counterpart of the man 's penis .
Some studies , using ultrasound , have found physiological evidence of the G-spot in women who report having orgasms during vaginal intercourse , but O'Connell suggests that the clitoris 's interconnected relationship with the vagina is the physiological explanation for the conjectured G-spot .	Rubbing or applying other consistent pressure against the clitoris is usually needed to help the woman have an orgasm .
Gram-positive bacteria are a class of bacteria that take up the crystal violet stain used in the Gram staining method of bacterial differentiation .	This is in contrast to gram-negative bacteria , which can not hold the crystal violet stain .
The Deinococcus-Thermus bacteria have gram-positive stains , although they are structurally similar to gram-negative bacteria with two layers ( diderms ) .	Gram-positive bacteria are those that are stained dark blue or violet by Gram staining .
It has been conjectured that she was born with spina bifida , a congenital condition that could have affected both spinal and leg development .	She had polio that left her disabled when she was 6 years old and some people think that she may have had spina bifida ( a birth defect affecting the development of part of the spine ) as well .
Stomach cancer can cause the following signs and symptoms : Note that these can be symptoms of other problems such as a stomach virus , gastric ulcer or tropical sprue .	The life span of someone with stomach cancer is five to fifteen years .
Harry Nilsson said of his inspiration for The Point , `` I was on acid and I looked at the trees and I realized that they all came to points , and the little branches came to points , and the houses came to point .	Nilsson said later the inspiration for The Point !
He noted that of 90 % of verified supercentenarians are women and said his organization had uncovered a baptismal certificate that indicated Flores was actually 107 rather than his claimed age of 123 .	certificate that indicated Flores was actually 107 rather than his claimed age of 123 .
She started performing again in 1973 , but by then her condition had become severe .	Then , in 1973 , she started playing again , but she could not play so well .
Her career was cut short by multiple sclerosis , which forced her to stop performing at the age of 28 , and led to her premature death .	She was still quite young when she became ill with multiple sclerosis and had to give up playing her cello .
For her January tour of North America , some of the less-than-complimentary reviews were an indication that her condition had worsened except for brief moments when her playing was without noticeable problems .	There were also other films made of her playing .
It is probable that most other membrane-bound organelles are ultimately derived from such vesicles .	Many other organelles that have membranes probably started off as vesicles .
Many cells ingest food and other materials through a process of endocytosis , where the outer membrane invaginates and then pinches off to form a vesicle .	In endocytosis , the membrane closest to the outside bends inwards and then pinches off to make a vesicle .
To be able to perform their biological function , proteins fold into one or more specific spatial conformations , driven by a number of non-covalent interactions such as hydrogen bonding , ionic interactions , Van der Waals forces , and hydrophobic packing .	After translation , proteins fold into specific shapes .
The folding is driven by the non-specific hydrophobic interactions , the burial of hydrophobic residues from water , but the structure is stable only when the parts of a protein domain are locked into place by specific tertiary interactions , such as salt bridges , hydrogen bonds , and the tight packing of side chains and disulfide bonds .	This is not done by chemical bonds but by weaker forces such as hydrogen bonds .
Multimers made up of identical subunits are referred to with a prefix of `` homo - '' ( e.g. a homotetramer ) and those made up of different subunits are referred to with a prefix of `` hetero - '' , for example , a heterotetramer , such as the two alpha and two beta chains of hemoglobin .	Haemoglobin , for example , has two alpha and two beta chains .
Chairman of the London organising committee , Lord Coe , said about the 2012 Summer Paralympics and Olympics in London that , In 2010 , the Olympic Games were complemented by the Youth Games , which give athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 the chance to compete .	Athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 compete .
In time , Paeon ( more usually spelled Paean ) became an epithet of Apollo , in his capacity as a god capable of bringing disease and therefore propitiated as a god of healing .	In time , Paeon ( more usually spelled Paean ) became a name used for Apollo .
Other syndromes like obsessive compulsive disorder or post traumatic stress disorder can also cause agoraphobia .	Agoraphobia is a medical condition that causes anxiety .
Exposure treatment can provide lasting relief to the majority of patients with panic disorder and agoraphobia .	People with agoraphobia believe that their home is the only safe place .
Also , many blind people have nystagmus , which is one reason that some wear dark glasses .	Nystagmus can not be fixed by spectacles or contact lenses , although many people with nystagmus wear glasses or contact lenses to correct other eye problems .
Due to the involuntary movement of the eye , it is often called `` dancing eyes '' .	Nystagmus , often called `` dancing eyes '' , is an eye condition which causes uncontrolled , rapid , jerky , movement of the eyes , usually from side to side , but sometimes up and down or in a circular motion .
The resulting nystagmus is often named as a gross description of the movement , e.g. downbeat nystagmus , upbeat nystagmus , seesaw nystagmus , periodic alternating nystagmus .	The second type is known as acquired nystagmus which has a number of causes including : There are currently no cures for nystagmus , but UK Nystagmus Network supports and encourages medical and other research into this complex condition .
His father , a former Austro-Hungarian non-commissioned officer and later officer in the Polish Army , died of a heart attack in 1941 , leaving Wojtyła as the immediate family 's only surviving member .	His father died of a heart attack in February 1941 .
On 19 December 2009 , John Paul II was proclaimed Venerable by his successor Pope Benedict XVI and was beatified on 1 May 2011 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints attributed one miracle to him , the healing of a French nun from Parkinson 's disease .	John Paul II beatified many people .
During John Paul II 's reign , the Vatican described homosexuality as an `` objective disorder '' and in his own book Memory and Identity John Paul II describes the concept of gay families as an `` ideology of evil '' , phrases which incensed many parts of the LGBT community .	As head of the largest Christian group , John Paul II taught a conservative theological view of human sexuality .
On 31 March 2005 following a urinary tract infection , he developed septic shock , a form of infection with a high fever and low blood pressure , but was not hospitalised .	The cause of death were that his kidneys failed , causing blood poisoning and infection brought by septic shock .
Later that day , Vatican sources announced that John Paul II had been given the Anointing of the Sick by his friend and secretary Stanisław Dziwisz .	- Stanisław Dziwisz ( 189 ) On 30 September 2013 , Pope Francis said that John Paul , together with Pope John XXIII , will be made saints on 27 April 2014 .
When co-decision was introduced it increased the Parliaments powers in a number of areas , but most notably those covered by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety .	The EU has three areas , the `` Community '' , its representation to other countries , and things to do with police and courts .
It is not known if such platelet action has any effect on the risk of heart attack or ischemic stroke .	This study may be significant to stroke and heart attack risk reduction because when excess thromboxane formation occurs , an arterial blood clot can develop , resulting in a heart attack or ischemic stroke .
In rats , guarana increased memory retention and physical endurance when compared with a placebo .	A separate 1997 study of guaraná 's effects on the physical activity of rats showed increased memory retention and physical endurance when compared with a placebo .
As a dietary supplement , guarana is an effective stimulant : its seeds contain about twice the concentration of caffeine found in coffee beans ( about 2-4 .5 % caffeine in guarana seeds compared to 1-2 % for coffee beans ) .	Water extracts of the guarana plant are central nervous system stimulants due to the content of these alkaloids .
Like other tetrapods , humans have two external nostrils ( anterior nares ) and two additional nostrils at the back of the nasal cavity , inside the head ( posterior nares , posterior nasal apertures or `` choanae ) .	A nostril ( or naris , pl .
Among the topics covered by environmental engineering are pollutant transport , water purification , waste water treatment , air pollution , solid waste treatment and hazardous waste management .	Safe water supplies , sewage treatment , roads , railways and buildings are all part of civil engineering .
This involves specifying , designing , constructing , and maintaining streets , sidewalks , water supply networks , sewers , street lighting , municipal solid waste management and disposal , storage depots for various bulk materials used for maintenance and public works ( salt , sand , etc. ) , public parks and bicycle paths .	It also covers complicated networks such as water , irrigation and sewerage networks .
Although originally a mental-illness diagnosis usually applied to women , body dysmorphic disorder also occurs in men .	Body dysmorphic disorder ( BDD ) is a mental problem where people think they look different to how they really look .
The causes of body dysmorphic disorder vary for each person , but are usually a combination of biological , psychological , and environmental factors .	If the amount of serotonin is too low , one of the brain 's neurotransmitters which gives us ` mood ' and ` pain ' , may help cause body dysmorphic disorder .
Body dysmorphic disorder ( BDD , also known as body dysmorphia , dysmorphic syndrome ; originally dysmorphophobia ) is a chronic mental illness , a somatoform disorder , wherein the afflicted individual is concerned with body image , manifested as excessive concern about and preoccupation with a perceived defect of their physical appearance .	BDD is a somatoform disorder .
BDD can occur with obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) .	Many people with BDD also have OCD , where the person does things without wanting to .
BDD is linked to a diminished quality of life , can be co-morbid with major depressive disorder and social phobia ( chronic social anxiety ) and is associated with suicidal ideation .	When they do look for help to Doctors , people with the problem often say they have other problems , for example , depression , social anxiety , or obsessive-compulsive disorder , but do not say their real problem is with the way they look .
They may feel too embarrassed and unwilling to accept that others will tell the sufferer that they are suffering from a disorder .	People with BDD often do not look for help because they are afraid others will think they are just vain , or they may feel too embarrassed to talk to other people as they think they are so ugly .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) defines Asperger syndrome ( AS ) as one of the autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) or pervasive developmental disorders ( PDD ) , which are a spectrum of psychological conditions that are characterized by abnormalities of social interaction and communication that pervade the individual 's functioning , and by restricted and repetitive interests and behavior .	Asperger syndrome is considered to be at the highest functioning end of the Autism spectrum disorders .
Individuals with Asperger syndrome may have signs or symptoms that are independent of the diagnosis , but can affect the individual or the family .	Parents who have Asperger syndrome often have children who have it or another kind of autism .
Like the diagnosis of Asperger syndrome , the change was controversial and AS was not removed from the WHO 's ICD-10 .	Asperger syndrome is not disease .
As a pervasive developmental disorder , Asperger syndrome is distinguished by a pattern of symptoms rather than a single symptom .	Asperger syndrome is thought to manifest as a developmental disorder , and is not considered a mental illness .
A lack of demonstrated empathy has a significant impact on aspects of communal living for persons with Asperger syndrome .	People who have Asperger syndrome have normal to high intelligence .
People with Asperger syndrome often display behavior , interests , and activities that are restricted and repetitive and are sometimes abnormally intense or focused .	People with Asperger syndrome can have a hard time `` fitting in '' with other people .
There is little support for increased fight-or-flight response or failure of habituation in autism ; there is more evidence of decreased responsiveness to sensory stimuli , although several studies show no differences .	There are many symptoms .
Asperger syndrome ( AS ) , also known as Asperger disorder ( AD ) or simply Asperger 's , is an autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) that is characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication , alongside restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests .	Asperger syndrome ( often Asperger 's syndrome ) is a way of describing the way in which a person understands other people , talks with other people , and acts with other people .
The modern conception of Asperger syndrome came into existence in 1981 and went through a period of popularization , becoming standardized as a diagnosis in the early 1990s .	Asperger syndrome can not be found by testing blood or looking at someone 's body .
Although individuals with Asperger syndrome acquire language skills without significant general delay and their speech typically lacks significant abnormalities , language acquisition and use is often atypical .	Asperger 's syndrome symptoms include : Asperger syndrome is noticeable when the person acts differently in social situations .
They may show problems with proprioception ( sensation of body position ) on measures of developmental coordination disorder ( motor planning disorder ) , balance , tandem gait , and finger-thumb apposition .	A person with this condition may walk or act in a clumsy way and have trouble doing body actions such as sports .
Unlike Babbitt , who had autism , Peek probably also had FG syndrome .	Peek had brain damage since before birth , but was not autistic .
The spasms can also affect the chest , neck , back , abdominal muscles , and buttocks .	The condition leads to general muscle stiffness and spasms in other parts of the body .
In order to survive a tetanus infection , the maintenance of an airway and proper nutrition are required .	This led to the common name of the condition , lockjaw .
Neonatal tetanus is a form of generalized tetanus that occurs in newborns .	Tetanus is a disease that leads to muscle contractions that stay that way for some time .
The incubation period of tetanus may be up to several months , but is usually about eight days .	For treatment and more see : Tetanus treatment
He was bitten by a black mamba and died of a heart attack in less than an hour after being bitten in March 2008 .	Because the black mamba will sometimes live in populated places , bites are rather frequent .
God smites the Egyptians with terrible plagues ( Plagues of Egypt ) including a river of blood , a lot of frogs , and the death of first-born sons .	The last plague was the death of all the firstborns in Egypt .
Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) is an anxiety disorder characterized by intrusive thoughts that produce uneasiness , apprehension , fear , or worry ; by repetitive behaviors aimed at reducing the associated anxiety ; or by a combination of such obsessions and compulsions .	Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( often shortened to OCD ) is an anxiety disorder that causes repeated and unwanted thoughts and\/or feelings ( obsessions ) and actions ( compulsions ) .
Rather , the choice of a specific treatment depends on the patient 's diagnosis , medical and psychiatric history , and preferences , as well as the expertise of the treating clinician .	The choice of a treatment for a sleep disorder depends on the patient 's diagnosis , his\/her medical and psychiatric history , and how she or he prefers to be treated .
In addition , sleep disorders may also cause sufferers to sleep excessively , a condition known as hypersomnia .	A sleep disorder is a problem that stops people from sleeping normally .
Chronic sleep disorders in childhood , which affect some 70 % of children with developmental or psychological disorders , are under-reported and under-treated .	There are many sleep disorders , and some of them are very serious .
Hypnotherapy has been studied in the treatment of sleep disorders in both adults and children .	On the other hand , sometimes behavioral treatment of insomnia may give more lasting results .
Treatments for sleep disorders generally can be grouped into four categories : None of these general approaches is sufficient for all patients with sleep disorders .	These groups include : ( Sleeping sickness , a disease carried by the Tsetse fly , is not classified as a sleep disorder . )
Some sleep disorders have been found to compromise glucose metabolism .	Some other problems that can cause sleeping problems include : A sleep diary or log can be used to help diagnose ( define ) the problem .
Polysomnography is a test commonly ordered for some sleep disorders .	A test commonly ordered for some sleep disorders is the polysomnogram .
A comprehensive anger management program for athletes was developed by Dr. Mitch Abrams , a licensed sport psychologist who authored `` Anger Management in Sport '' As Martens argued for applied methods in sport psychology research , the increasing emergence of practitioners of sport psychology ( including sport psychology consultants who taught sport psychology skills and principles to athletes and coaches , and clinical and counseling psychologists who provided counseling and therapy to athletes ) brought into focus two key questions and a debate which continues to the present day : under what category does the discipline of sport psychology fall ?	Today there are two types of sports psychology , academic and applied .
He also investigated how high altitudes can have an effect on exercise and performance , aeroembolism , and decompression sickness , and studies on kinesthetic perception , learning of motor skills , and neuromuscular reaction were carried out in his laboratory .	His research was on the development of skills and on reaction times .
More recently , the role of sport psychologist has been called on to meet the increasing demand for anger management for athletes .	Today the number of sports psychologists that are being used by athletes is increasing .
Martens ' article spurred an increased interest in qualitative research methods in sport psychology , such as the seminal article `` Mental Links to Excellence . ''	Today there are three main areas of focus in applied sports psychology .
This includes studies on testosterone changes in sports which at least for males are similar to those in status conflicts in non-human primates with testosterone levels increasing and decreasing as an individual 's status changes .	This included psychology .
However , it was a bit later during the Cold War period ( 1946-1989 ) that numerous sport science programs were formed , due to the military competitiveness between the Soviet Union and the United States , and as a result of attempts to increase the Olympic medal numbers The Americans felt that their sport performances were inadequate and very disappointing compared to the ones of the Soviets , so this led them to invest more in the methods that could ameliorate their athletes performance , and made them have a greater interest on the subject .	One of the first things that this organization did was to start publishing the `` Sport Psychology Bulletin '' .
Testosterone may also be involved in the home advantage effect which has similarities to animal defense of their home territory .	The first one is called the pioneer effect .
His death certificate reported that he died of `` malnutrition and inanition caused by personality disturbance '' in Princeton Hospital on January 14 , 1978 .	He died of starvation .
Humans regard certain insects as pests , and attempt to control them using insecticides and a host of other techniques .	People often use poisons called insecticides to kill pest insects .
Naked mole rats ' substance P deficiency has also been tied to their lack of the histamine-induced itching and scratching behavior typical of rodents .	Naked mole rats feed primarily on very large tubers ( weighing as much as 1000 times the body weight of a typical mole rat ) that they find deep underground through their mining operations , but also eat their own feces ( coprophagia ) .
Sick building syndrome ( SBS ) is used to describe situations in which building occupants experience acute health and comfort effects that appear to be linked to time spent in a building , but no specific illness or cause can be identified .	Sick building syndrome ( SBS ) is a combination of illnesses ( a syndrome ) associated with a human 's place of work ( office building ) or dwelling .
`` The term `` Sick Building Syndrome '' was coined by WHO in 1986 , when they also estimated that 10-30 % of newly built office buildings in the West had indoor air problems .	Most of the sick building syndrome is related to poor indoor air quality .
( In all buildings , people associate their stay in the building with what is called `` SBS symptoms '' , but only when the questionnaire response indicates that more than 30 percent of users are reporting problems , the condition is described as `` Sick Building Syndrome '' . )	People try to fix SBS symptoms by increasing the overall turn-over rate of fresh air exchange between the building 's air and the outside air .
The key to discovery is the increased incidence of illnesses in general with onset or exacerbation within a fairly close time frame - usually within a period of weeks .	The key to discovery SBS is if a number of people first experience their illnesses within a period of weeks .
The gametes produced by an organism determine its sex : males produce male gametes ( spermatozoa , or sperm , in animals ; pollen in plants ) while females produce female gametes ( ova , or egg cells ) ; individual organisms which produce both male and female gametes are termed hermaphroditic .	In sexual reproduction the cells used for reproduction , called gametes , are either eggs or sperms .
The default sex , in the absence of a Y chromosome , is female .	In some ferns the default sex is hermaphrodite .
In mammals , the fertilized embryo instead develops within the female , receiving nutrition directly from its mother .	It evolved within single-celled eukaryotes .
Flowers are usually hermaphroditic , producing both male and female gametes .	In humans , males and females usually look different .
On 31 December 1984 , drummer Rick Allen lost his left arm in a car crash on the A57 in the hills outside the band 's home city Sheffield , when his Corvette swerved off the road on a sharp bend and went through a drystone wall .	In 1984 , drummer Rick Allen suffers the loss of an arm due to a car accident .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .	The diarrhea and vomiting , in turn , can cause very bad dehydration , leading to death if untreated .
The primary symptoms of cholera are profuse diarrhea and vomiting of clear fluid .	The most common symptoms of cholera are dehydration and fever .
Cholera is rarely spread directly from person to person .	Cholera can be stopped by three steps :
This occurs when people harvest oysters in waters infected with sewage , as Vibrio cholerae accumulates in zooplankton and the oysters eat the zooplankton .	Cholera is contracted by eating foods and\/or drinking water contaminated with the bacterium Vibrio Cholerae .
These induced characteristics allow the cholera vibrios to survive in the `` rice water '' stools , an environment of limited oxygen and iron , of patients with a cholera infection .	Vibrio cholera is more common where fresh water mixes with salt water , like where rivers enter the ocean .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .	Rehydration means to give back fluids and electrolytes to someone who is dehydrated .
People infected with cholera often have diarrhea , and if this highly liquid stool , colloquially referred to as `` rice-water '' , contaminates water used by others , disease transmission may occur .	They can also get it if they eat food or drink that was polluted with the diarrhoea from people who have cholera .
The most common error in caring for patients with cholera is to underestimate the speed and volume of fluids required .	People with cholera need medical treatment .
Silver inhibits the growth of bacteria and fungi on clothing , such as socks , so is sometimes added to reduce odors and the risk of bacterial and fungal infections .	They can also be used to reduce odors in clothes .
A sexual fetish may be regarded as an enhancing element to a romantic\/sexual relationship `` achieved in ordinary ways ( e.g. having the partner wear a particular garment ) '' or as a mental disorder\/disorder of sexual preference if it causes significant psychosocial distress for the person or has detrimental effects on important areas of their life .	Sexual fetishism may be thought of , in psychiatric medicine , as a disorder of sexual preference , It may also be thought of as a better way to a relationship .
If the sexual interest is concentrated on a certain part of the body which does not have a direct relation to the sex ( like breasts or external genitals ) , the fetishist does not consider the coitus as a real means of sexual satisfaction ; his sexual desire is on the contrary concentrated on the handling of that part of the body .	This is where the body part preferred by the fetishist takes a sexual precedence over the owner .
In an ESPN interview that day , Landis steadfastly denied that he had used synthetic testosterone during the 2006 Tour de France , but admitted to using human growth hormone and other doping modalities .	The doping test after stage 17 of the 2006 Tour de France showed he had a very high testosterone\/epitestosterone ratio .
To help with this process , rubbing vitamin E on the stretched ears will help keep them open as well as healthy to the point of pushing the point of no return further than the normal time frame .	Stretching is a word used to describe a kind of body modification .
An eating disorder is a mental disorder that interferes with normal food consumption .	A food allergy is a condition in which a specific food makes someone sick .
While the formula previously called the Quetelet Index for BMI dates to the 19th century , the new term `` body mass index '' for the ratio and its popularity date to a paper published in the July edition of 1972 in the Journal of Chronic Diseases by Ancel Keys , which found the BMI to be the best proxy for body fat percentage among ratios of weight and height ; the interest in measuring body fat being due to obesity becoming a discernible issue in prosperous Western societies .	It is also called the Quetelet Index .
The newest survey in 2007 indicates a continuation of the increase in BMI : 63 % of Americans are overweight or obese , with 26 % now in the obese category ( a BMI of 30 or more ) .	For example , in the United States in 2007 , 74 % of adults had a BMI above 25 ( Overweight or Obese ) and 27 % of adults had a BMI above 30 ( Obese ) .
Morbid obesity-a BMI of 40 or more-was found in 2 % of the men and 4 % of the women .	BMI is less useful for finding out whether one person is too fat or too thin .
For these individuals , the current value settings are as follows : a BMI of 18.5 to 25 may indicate optimal weight , a BMI lower than 18.5 suggests the person is underweight , a number above 25 may indicate the person is overweight , a number above 30 suggests the person is obese .	Some experts think the lowest Normal BMI should be 20 for men , and 18 for women .
It is a process that maintains the stability of the human body 's internal environment in response to changes in external conditions .	In biology , it is the keeping of a constant internal environment .
He showed that Streptococcus pneumoniae , implicated in many cases of lobar pneumonia , could transform from one strain into a different strain .	The experiment began when Griffith was trying to make a vaccine to prevent pneumonia infections in the `` Spanish flu '' influenza pandemic after World War I , by using two strains of the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium .
Poverty is associated with increased rates of teenage pregnancy .	The rates of teenage pregnancy vary from country to country and are related to differences of sexual activities , the general sex educations being provided and contraceptives being available .
The term `` natural science '' is used to distinguish the subject from the social sciences , such as economics , psychology and sociology , which apply the scientific method to the study of human behavior and social patterns ; the humanities , which use a critical or analytical approach to study the human condition ; and the formal sciences such as mathematics and logic , which use an a priori , as opposed to empirical methodology to study formal systems .	There are some Sciences that are used to study nature .
In order to distinguish between the different disorders , the DSM-V employs severity levels .	There are five disorders in the group .
For this reason , care is often taken in fields such as perception , cognitive psychology , and social psychology to make experiments double-blind , meaning that neither the experimenter nor the subject knows what condition the subject is in , and thus what his or her responses are predicted to be .	It is used in psychology to describe when an animal or a person senses what someone wants them to do , even although they are not deliberately being given signals .
Pfungst then proceeded to examine the behavior of the questioner in detail , and showed that as the horse 's taps approached the right answer , the questioner 's posture and facial expression changed in ways that were consistent with an increase in tension , which was released when the horse made the final , correct tap .	Then it stopped when it got to the right answer .
She died on Election Day , 10 October 2000 , after having cast her vote for the last time .	Exactly two months later she died , aged 84 , of a heart attack .
When a cornea is needed for transplant , as from an eye bank , the best procedure is to remove the cornea from the eyeball , preventing the cornea from absorbing the aqueous humor .	The cornea is the front part of the eye .
From the anterior to posterior the layers of the human cornea are : The cornea is one of the most sensitive tissues of the body , as it is densely innervated with sensory nerve fibers via the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve by way of 70-80 long ciliary nerves and short ciliary nerves .	It is the sixth layer of the cornea to be discovered .
Because there are no blood vessels in the cornea , there are also few problems with rejection of the new cornea .	It is a very special form of tissue because the cornea is clear , has no blood vessels , and has nerves with no myelin sheaths on them .
Corneas of other primates have five known layers ; the corneas of cats , dogs , wolves , and other carnivores only have four .	The cornea and the lens bend light so the image strikes the retina .
The human cornea has five ( possibly six ) layers .	The cornea does about two-thirds of this refraction .
There , Lady Catherine died fourteen days later on 26 January 1568 at the age of twenty-seven of consumption .	Katherine soon got tuberculosis , and died in January 1568 .
The amount of Hb Lepore in the patients blood ranged from 8 to 30 % , the remainder being fetal hemoglobin ( Hb F ) which is present in minute quantities ( typically ( 1 percent ) in the red blood cells of adults .	The Hb Lepore trait is found worldwide and may affect people of various races , however the three main kinds of Hb Lepore , usually affects Caucasians of the Southern regions of Central and Eastern Europe .
These lesions include petechia ( ( 3 mm caused typically by platelet disorders ) , purpura ( 3 mm to 1 cm caused typically by inflammation of the small blood vessels known as vasculitis ) , and ecchymosis ( ) 1 cm caused typically by coagulation disorders ) , all of which also do not blanch on pressure , and are caused by internal bleeding not associated with trauma ( e.g. , platelet or coagulation disorder ) .	Platelet or coagulation disorders often lead to the increased bruising .
Low levels of damaging forces produce small bruises and generally cause the individual to feel minor pain straight away .	Bruises that do not result from the application of force ( blunt trauma ) may be a symptom for other conditions : People with such bruises often have a problem with their blood .
Bruising present in a different location than the site of impact is called ectopic bruising and occurs when the tissue at the site of injury is loose , allowing blood to travel under the skin to another location due to gravity or other forces , such as in a black eye .	Applying cold when the bruise is discovered helps make it smaller , because it stops the blood that 's flowing to the area .
The urethra opens within the urethral fossa , a small pouch at the distal end of the glans .	The opening of the urethra is at the tip of the glans .
In males who have been circumcised , the glans is permanently exposed and dry .	In children who have been circumcised and wear diapers , the opening of the penis has no protection .
The epithelium of the glans penis is mucocutaneous tissue .	It is attached to the Corpus cavernosum penis and at the tip of the glans is the urethra opening .
He died of cholera three months after his term ended .	He died from cholera .
During forced exhalation , as when blowing out a candle , expiratory muscles including the abdominal muscles and internal intercostal muscles , generate abdominal and thoracic pressure , which forces air out of the lungs .	As the air pressure in the lungs is greater when the lungs are smaller , air is forced out .
In humans and other mammals , the anatomical features of the respiratory system include include trachea , bronchi , bronchioles , lungs , and diaphragm .	Air first passes through the nose and mouth , then through the larynx ( voice box ) , then down the trachea ( windpipe ) , and into the lungs .
This is because scuba diving is considered an elective and `` high-risk '' activity and treatment for decompression sickness is expensive .	Decompression sickness is also called the bends .
DCS is best known as a diving disorder that affects divers having breathed gas that is at a higher pressure than the surface pressure , owing to the pressure of the surrounding water .	At the end of the dive the diver must return to the surface of the water where there is less pressure .
To prevent the excess formation of bubbles that can lead to decompression sickness , divers limit their ascent rate to about 10 metres ( 33 ft ) per minute , and carry out a decompression schedule as necessary .	Decompression sickness is caused by bubbles which form in the blood and other body parts of people who have the pressure around them decrease too quickly .
Flow conditions and perfusion rates are dominant parameters in competition between tissue and circulation bubbles , and between multiple bubbles , for dissolved gas for bubble growth .	This allows the gases which have dissolved in the body to get out in the breathing air without forming bubbles .
Decompression sickness ( DCS ; also known as divers ' disease , the bends or caisson disease ) describes a condition arising from dissolved gases coming out of solution into bubbles inside the body on depressurisation .	Decompression sickness can happen to underwater divers who spend a lot of time in deep water , and return to the surface too quickly for the breathing gases dissolved in their bodies to escape without forming bubbles .
This is often found to provoke inner ear decompression sickness , as the ear seems particularly sensitive to this effect .	Decompression sickness can be prevented by decreasing the pressure slowly .
High altitude parachutists performing a HALO jump may develop altitude DCS if they do not flush nitrogen from the body by pre-breathing pure oxygen .	If a diver gets decompression sickness it can be treated by putting the diver in a decompression chamber , and increasing the pressure to squeeze the bubbles to a smaller size where they do less harm , and by giving the diver pure oxygen to breathe , which helps to get the bubbles to dissolve again .
Also , cabin pressurization systems fail occasionally , and some people may be vulnerable to the drop in pressure that occurs even in pressurized aircraft .	People can also get decompression sickness if they are in a pressurized aeroplane or spacecraft and it is damaged and the air is lost .
After the child sex abuse scandal involving his former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky broke in full in November 2011 , Paterno announced he would retire at the end of the season .	The university was concerned about Paterno 's possible responsibility after long-time assistant coach Jerry Sandusky was arrested on child sexual abuse charges .
Stewart 's 1972 challenge was ruined by a stomach ulcer , but he returned to full fitness in 1973 .	Stewart 's had health problems dealing with a stomach ulcer in 1972 and did not race .
These products include Gatorade Carbohydrate Energy Drink , Gatorade Protein Recovery Shake , the Gatorade Nutrition Shake , and the Gatorade Nutrition Bar .	The most notable and ongoing presence of Gatorade in popular culture is the Gatorade shower , originally called the `` Gatorade Dunk , '' where players from a victorious team pick up the Gatorade cooler , sneak up behind the head coach , and pour the contents of the cooler ( generally Gatorade and ice ) over his head at the end of an American football game .
In 2001 , Gatorade introduced the Gatorade Performance Series , a special line of sports nutrition products .	Gatorade is the official sports drink of Viva Entertainment 's home video affiliate , Viva Video , Inc. .
Perceval 's father died when he was eight .	Perceval was Prime Minister when William Wilberforce passed his Bill ( law ) ending the slave trade .
Freon and other CFCs soon replaced the various toxic or explosive substances previously used as refrigerants , and were later used in other applications , such as propellants in aerosol spray cans and asthma inhalers .	In the 1930s Midgley developed a non-poisonous substance called CFC ( chlorinated fluorocarbon ) for use in refrigerators , inhalers and aerosol spray cans .
In the case of a response to artificial sweeteners , because blood sugar does not increase there can be increased hypoglycemia or hyperinsulinemia and increased food intake the next time there is a meal .	With artificial sweeteners , the amount of sugar in the blood does not increase .
In October 1932 , Sargent suffered a near-fatal attack of tuberculosis .	By the mid-1960s Sargent was suffering from cancer .
However , Satie 's military career did not last very long ; within a few months he was discharged after deliberately infecting himself with bronchitis .	In fact , he did less than a year in the army because he deliberately got himself ill with bronchitis .
Lully died from gangrene , having struck his foot with his long conducting staff during a performance of his Te Deum to celebrate Louis XIV 's recovery from surgery .	Lully conducted the orchestra .
By 1963 , a new sense of the word gay was known well enough to be used by Albert Ellis in his book The Intelligent Woman 's Guide to Man-Hunting .	This is because of the stereotype that gay men are very interested in fashion , clothing , and interior design ; another possibility is that people are still using the word in its original sense , as the word gay originally meant `` fun '' or `` joyful '' .
The TLRs ( of which ten are now known to exist in humans ) are now widely known to function in the perception of microbes , each detecting signature molecules that herald infection .	Ten are now known in humans .
Lavender oil ( or extract of Lavender ) is used to treat acne when diluted 1:10 with water , rosewater , or witch hazel ; it also treats skin burns and inflammatory conditions .	Lavenders are sometimes put in medicine , too , and sometimes to prevent infection - such as lavender oil , that was used in World War 1 to disinfect walls and floors of the hospital .
Rape by strangers is usually less common than rape by persons the victim knows , and several studies argue that male-male and female-female prison rape are quite common and may be the least reported forms of rape .	One in three Native American women has been a victim of rape or attempted rape .
Rape was first recognized as crime against humanity when the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia issued arrest warrants based on the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws or Customs of War .	The International Criminal Court can also condemn it as a `` crime against humanity '' , if done by a group .
In 2005 , some aid industry organizations stated that around 60 % of combatants in the Second Congo War were HIV-infected , and that the disease was being spread by systematic rape perpetrated by these soldiers .	14 % of men from the area had took part in gang rape .
In many parts of the world , where women have very few rights , it is considered unthinkable for a woman to refuse her husband 's sexual demands : for instance one survey found that 74 % of women in Mali said that a husband is justified to beat his wife if she refuses to have sex with him .	WHO found among a sample of women in rural Ethiopia who had had sex , 17 % said that the first time they had sex it was forced .
Commenting on rape of children and women in recent African conflict zones , UNICEF said that rape was no longer just perpetrated by combatants but also by civilians .	The highest rate was 62 % of men in Bougainville Island , Papua New Guinea who said they had raped a woman .
Four States criminalize marital rape only when the spouses are judicially separated .	38 % said they had raped a woman to punish her .
Perspiration ( sweating , transpiration , or diaphoresis ) is the production of fluids secreted by the sweat glands in the skin of mammals .	Sweat is made in sweat glands under the surface of the skin , and it comes out of tiny holes in the skin called pores .
As someone becomes fit , the body becomes more efficient at regulating the body 's temperature and sweat glands adapt along with the body 's other systems .	Sweat glands are distributed over the entire body , except for the lips , nipples and external genital organs .
In times past it was common for boys to sing soprano well beyond the changes at puberty and it was common ( and entirely correct ) to refer to a choirboy 's voice as ` breaking ' as the singing voice had been preserved by methods now generally lost .	At puberty he starts to become a man and his voice range will go down ( we say that his voice `` breaks '' ) .
The penis may erect during sleep or be erect on waking up .	Like a man 's penis , a woman 's clitoris can also become erect .
Generally , the size of an erect penis is fixed throughout post-pubescent life .	The size of an erect penis generally does not change after puberty , the time when a boy becomes sexually mature .
This may cause physical and psychological effects for the affected individual , which could include erectile dysfunction or pain during an erection .	A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction .
Some drugs used to treat other conditions , such as lithium and paroxetine , may cause erectile dysfunction .	A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction ( ED ) .
An erect penis can also take on a number of different shapes , ranging from a straight tube to a tube with a curvature up or down or to the left or right .	When an erect penis is shown in art , it is often called a phallus .
The length of the flaccid penis does not necessarily correspond to the length of the penis when it becomes erect ; some smaller flaccid penises grow much longer , while some larger flaccid penises grow comparatively less .	Few men 's penises are completely straight when they are erect .
After ejaculation or cessation of stimulation , erection usually subsides , but the time taken may vary depending on the length and thickness of the penis .	How long this takes depends on the length and thickness of his penis .
The corpus spongiosum is a single tubular structure located just below the corpora cavernosa , which contains the urethra , through which urine and semen pass during urination and ejaculation respectively .	This allows blood to flow away from the corpora cavernosa penis into the corpus spongiosum penis .
The arteries dilate , filling the corpora spongiosum and cavernosa with blood .	The corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis are filled with many blood vessels called arteries which carry blood .
The arteries dilate causing the corpora cavernosa of the penis ( and to a lesser extent the corpora spongiosum ) to fill with blood ; simultaneously the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles compress the veins of the corpora cavernosa restricting the egress and circulation of this blood .	Thus , the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis all fill with blood and become larger and harder .
A penis which is partly , but not fully , erect is sometimes known as a semi-erection ( clinically : partial tumescence ) ; a penis which is not erect is typically referred to as being flaccid , or soft .	When this happens , it is said that the penis is erect , or that the man has an erection .
Common physiological reasons include diabetes , kidney disease , chronic alcoholism , multiple sclerosis , atherosclerosis , vascular disease , and neurologic disease which collectively account for about 70 percent of ED cases .	These are some common physiological reasons for ED : ED can also happen for psychological reasons .
Erections during sleep or upon waking up are known as nocturnal penile tumescence ( NPT ) .	The scientific term for this is nocturnal penile tumescence ( which means `` swelling of the penis at night '' ) .
Priapism is a medical condition which could possibly be painful , and is a prolonged erection at least four hours long , which does not return to its flaccid state , despite the absence of both physical and psychological stimulation .	On the other hand , an erection that lasts too long is also a dangerous condition called priapism .
An erection occurs when two tubular structures , called the corpora cavernosa , that run the length of the penis , become engorged with venous blood .	Tissues in the penis called the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis fill with blood , causing the penis to become longer , thicker , harder and to stand upright .
Physiologically , erection is triggered by the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system ( ANS ) , causing nitric oxide ( a vasodilator ) levels to rise in the trabecular arteries and smooth muscle of the penis .	This happens in the same way as an erection of the penis .
The cortex can suppress erection even in the presence of mechanical stimulation , as can other psychological , emotional , and environmental factors .	The brain can also stop an erection from happening , even if the man is being touched sexually .
Sources of bleeds include hematemesis , hemoptysis , melena , and aforementioned bleeding from mucous membranes ( gastrointestinal tract , nose , vagina and gingiva ) .	They bleed from their noses , mouths , and genitals .
In isolated settings such as a quarantined hospital or a remote village , most victims are infected shortly after the first case of infection is present .	They stop it by isolating people infected with the disease , or placing them in quarantine .
The average time between contracting the infection and the onset of symptoms is 13 days , but can be as long as 25 days .	Out of every 10 people who get Ebola , on average five to nine die .
There is no specific treatment and the disease has a high rate of death .	Because Ebola is caused by a virus , there is no cure .
Measles , also known as morbilli , English measles , or rubeola ( and not to be confused with rubella or roseola ) is an infection of the respiratory system , immune system and skin caused by a virus , specifically a paramyxovirus of the genus Morbillivirus .	Measles is an infectious disease , caused by a virus .
A 25-year-old male had measles at the time of death and died from giant cell pneumonia caused by the disease .	Most people that have measles recover , but some people die from it .
The classic signs and symptoms of measles include four-day fevers ( the 4 D 's ) and the three Cs-cough , coryza ( head cold ) , and conjunctivitis ( red eyes ) - along with fever and rashes .	People with measles have a sore throat , a fever , a cough , red eyes and a runny nose .
Eleven of the cases had received at least one dose of measles vaccine .	If someone in a house has measles , it is very likely that other people in the house will also get it .
Measles is an endemic disease , meaning it has been continually present in a community , and many people develop resistance .	Measles is sometimes also called rubeola , but it is not the same as rubella ( German measles ) .
The rash is said to `` stain '' , changing color from red to dark brown , before disappearing .	These rashes will cause a high irritation of itching .
Vaccination is not mandatory in some countries in Europe , in contrast to the United States and many Latin American countries , where children must be vaccinated before they enter school .	In developed countries , lots of children have a vaccination ( injection ) to stop them from getting measles .
Nasal hair should not be confused with cilia of the nasal cavity , which are the microscopic cellular strands that , unlike macroscopic nasal hair , draw mucus up toward the oropharynx via their coordinated , back-and-forth beating .	Note that nasal hair is different from the cilia found in the nose , which are part of the olfactory system .
Adult humans have hairs in the anterior nasal passage .	The purpose of these hairs is to act as a filter , keeping dust and dirt out of the nasal passages .
Although diet , exercise , behavior therapy and anti-obesity drugs are first-line treatment , medical therapy for severe obesity has limited short-term success and very poor long-term success .	Diet , exercise , changing people 's habits , and drugs are tried first to help people lose weight .
There are many detrimental health effects of obesity : Individuals with a BMI ( Body Mass Index ) exceeding a healthy range have a much greater risk of medical issues .	People with a high body mass index ( BMI ) are much more likely to have certain health problems .
Overweight and obese people , including children , may find it difficult to lose weight on their own .	More and more people are becoming overweight or obese .
One line of thinking is that the individual stresses of police work produce a condition of chronic stress .	A police officer 's job is to protect the public , make sure people obey the law and make people feel safe .
Police officers encounter stressors in call after call which sap their emotional strength .	This might include the power to arrest a person who they think has committed a crime , the power to search a person , the power to stop cars and direct traffic , the power to ask for a person 's name and address , the power to give out tickets or fines or the power to make a person come to court .
On August 7 , 2009 , Sarah Palin claimed the proposed legislation would create `` death panels '' that would decide if sick and elderly Americans were `` worthy '' of medical care .	In August of 2009 , Sarah Palin , a person who used to be a candidate for vice president , said to the news that the Affordable Care Act would create death panels .
Examples of tactile illusions include phantom limb , the thermal grill illusion , the cutaneous rabbit illusion and a curious illusion that occurs when the crossed index and middle fingers are run along the bridge of the nose with one finger on each side , resulting in the perception of two separate noses .	This can happen with any limb of the body , and it is called the phantom limb .
Some illusions occur as result of an illness or a disorder .	Some illusions happen because of disorders , but generally , all normal people can sense the same illusion .
Alice herself soon fell ill with diphtheria , and died on the anniversary of her father 's death , 14 December 1878 , when Alix was only six years old .	Princess Alice died on December 14 , 1878 .
Alix , her three sisters , and her brother Ernest fell ill .	Alix , her sisters , Irene and May and brother , Ernie were infected by the disease .
When amino acids combine , they form a special bond called a peptide bond through dehydration synthesis , and become a polypeptide , or protein .	By breaking the chemical bonds in carbohydrates , energy is released and can be used by the body .
Two monosaccharides can be joined using dehydration synthesis , in which a hydrogen atom is removed from the end of one molecule and a hydroxyl group ( - OH ) is removed from the other ; the remaining residues are then attached at the sites from which the atoms were removed .	Enzymes Enzymes are special types of protein which greatly speed up the chemical reactions in a living thing .
For his part , Patton did not believe the condition was real .	George Patton believed it was part of a general 's duty to visit his wounded soldiers in hospitals .
Patton wrote in his diary that he loathed making the apologies , particularly when he was told by Bennett 's brigade commander , Brigadier General John A. Crane , that Bennett had gone absent without leave ( AWOL ) and arrived at the hospital by `` falsely representing his condition . ''	Patton wrote Eisenhower a note of apology .
Cystic fibrosis ( CF ) is a chronic illness that affects the `` digestive and respiratory tracts resulting in generalized malnutrition and chronic respiratory infections '' .	Cystic fibrosis affects the entire body .
Cystic fibrosis ( CF ) , also known as mucoviscidosis , is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder that affects most critically the lungs , and also the pancreas , liver , and intestine .	Cystic Fibrosis ( also known as mucoviscidosis , CF , and 65 roses ) is a condition a person may get from their parents .
Couples who are pregnant or planning a pregnancy can have themselves tested for the CFTR gene mutations to determine the risk that their child will be born with cystic fibrosis .	The parent might not have cystic fibrosis but still might have the gene .
The thick mucus seen in the lungs has a counterpart in thickened secretions from the pancreas , an organ responsible for providing digestive juices that help break down food .	It causes the body to make thick , sticky mucus , which builds up in the lungs , the digestive system and other parts of the body .
Studies have shown that to prevent the lung manifestations of cystic fibrosis , only 5-10 % the normal amount of CFTR gene expression is needed .	If both parents have the cystic-fibrosis gene , and pass it onto their child , the child will get cystic fibrosis .
Resistance to the following have all been proposed as possible sources of heterozygote advantage : Gene therapy has been explored as a potential cure for cystic fibrosis .	There is no cure for cystic fibrosis but there are a lot of medications that help keep people healthy .
The lungs of individuals with cystic fibrosis are colonized and infected by bacteria from an early age .	A person with cystic fibrosis is not contagious ( they ca n't give it to anyone else ) .
With the help of the Cystic Fibrosis Trust , which has a league of highly professional gene therapists , both somatic and Adeno-associated viral vector have made advances .	65 roses is also a trademarked phrase by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation to help control its use since it is a very helpful way for young children to understand .
In rare cases , cystic fibrosis can manifest itself as a coagulation disorder .	65 Roses is how some children refer to their condition since Cystic Fibrosis is difficult for a young child to say .
Sodium chlorite , NaClO2 , sometimes in combination with zinc chloride , also finds application as a component in therapeutic rinses , mouthwashes , toothpastes and gels , mouth sprays , as preservative in eye drops , and in contact lens cleaning solution under the trade name Purite .	Sodium chlorite can be used to disinfect water .
In 1968 , Salazar suffered a brain hemorrhage .	In 1968 , Salazar suffered a major stroke , reportedly caused by falling from his chair at his summer house .
Achondroplasia \/ eɪˌkɒndrɵˈpleɪziə \/ is a common cause of dwarfism .	Achondroplasia is a form of Dwarfism .
If both parents of a child have achondroplasia , and both parents pass on the mutant gene , then it is very unlikely that the homozygous child will live past a few months of its life .	If both parents have the gene the chances are increased to 75 % , but in 25 % of the cases , it is very unlikely that the child would live more than a few months .
A person with achondroplasia thus has a 50 % chance of passing dwarfism to each of their offspring .	This gives a child a 50 % chance of getting the condition .
Under pretence of saving the other children from the contagion of scrofula she persuaded the father to keep Germaine away from the homestead , and thus the child was employed almost from infancy as a shepherdess .	Germaine 's stepmother did not want the other children to contract scrofula , so she talked her husband into keeping Germaine away from the house .
Of her , the Catholic Encyclopedia writes : `` From her birth she seemed marked out for suffering ; she came into the world with a deformed hand and the disease of scrofula , and , while yet an infant , lost her mother .	She was born with a disfigured hand and a disease called scrofula .
Extremely rare albino individuals , sometimes called white panthers , also occur among jaguars , as with the other big cats .	They are called `` black panther '' or just `` panther '' .
Whereas cocaine hydrochloride can not be smoked ( burns with no effect ) , crack cocaine when smoked allows for quick absorption into the blood stream , and reaches the brain in 8 seconds .	When people smoke crack , they have a feeling called `` being high . ''
Three years later she died of tuberculosis .	She died from tuberculosis at Macao , in China , on 15 July 1796 .
Pharmaceutical-grade Prussian blue in particular is used for patients who have ingested thallium or radioactive caesium .	When using the RGB color model where red , green , and blue light are added together , Prussian blue has the RGB code of 0 , 49 , 83 Prussian blue is a medicine that is sometimes given by doctors to help remove certain radioactive materials from people 's bodies .
By 2002 , he had developed cardiomyopathy , a deterioration of the heart muscle unrelated to coronary artery disease , leaving him with only 30 % of normal cardiac capacity .	By 2002 , he had a heart condition that could not be fixed .
Braille was based on a tactile military code called night writing , developed by Charles Barbier in response to Napoleon 's demand for a means for soldiers to communicate silently at night and without light .	Charles Barbier used a similar system , because Napoleon wanted a code that soldiers could use to exchange messages silently and without light at night .
Examples of vector-borne zoonotic diseases include : Many factors affect the incidence of vector-borne diseases .	The study of vectors gives us knowledge about the life cycle of parasitic diseases , and this helps us control those diseases .
Euphoria may also occur with `` diseases affecting the nervous system , such as syphilis and multiple sclerosis . ''	It can also be caused by head injuries or conditions which affect the central nervous system , like syphilis and multiple sclerosis .
Euphoria can also be the result of a psychological disorder such as the bipolar disorder and cyclothymia .	For example , euphoria is a common symptom of mania , an extreme , high-energy mood state which can happen with bipolar disorder and other mental health conditions .
Euphoria ( \/ juːˈfɔəriə \/ ; from Ancient Greek εὐφορία , from εὖ eu , `` well '' , and φέρω pherō , `` to bear '' ) ( semantically opposite of dysphoria ) is medically recognized as a mental and emotional condition in which a person experiences intense feelings of well-being , elation , happiness , excitement , and joy .	Euphoria is the opposite of dysphoria .
A range of disorders can cause decreases in white blood cells .	The number of white blood cells increases when a person is fighting infection or disease and decrease when a person is healthy .
Monocytes eventually leave the bloodstream and become tissue macrophages , which remove dead cell debris as well as attacking microorganisms .	Monocytes are reserve cells which turn into macrophages and dendritic cells , which work together in tissues to fight disease .
Eosinophils are also the predominant inflammatory cells in allergic reactions .	Eosinophils are round cells with a lobed nucleus and granules which turn red when stained .
Lymphocytes include : Monocytes share the `` vacuum cleaner '' ( phagocytosis ) function of neutrophils , but are much longer lived as they have an extra role : they present pieces of pathogens to T cells so that the pathogens may be recognized again and killed .	If you had 1000 white blood cells , only 1-3 of them would be basophils .
Neither dead cell debris nor attacking microorganisms can be dealt with effectively by the neutrophils .	They may appear as macrophages in a non-round shape when they pass through tissue to eat germs , `` junk '' cells , and dead cells .
Interstitial cystitis patients also struggle with urinary frequency and\/or urinary urgency .	Women with cystitis usually also have urinary frequency ( needing to urinate a lot ) and\/or urinary urgency ( needing to urinate suddenly ) .
In women , common physical causes for coital discomfort include infections of the vagina , lower urinary tract , cervix , or fallopian tubes ( e.g. , mycotic organisms ( esp .	Some of the most common physical causes are infections of the vagina , urinary tract , cervix , or fallopian tubes ; endometriosis ; scar tissue left by surgery ( like an episiotomy ) ; and ovarian cysts and tumors .
Patients may struggle with bladder pain and discomfort during or after sex .	People with cystitis may have bladder pain during or after sex .
In the majority of instances of dyspareunia , there is an original physical cause .	There are a number of physical factors as well .
Women undergoing radiation therapy for pelvic malignancy often experience severe dyspareunia due to the atrophy of the vaginal walls and their susceptibility to trauma .	Women who are getting radiation therapy for cancer in the pelvic area may have pain during sex because the walls of the vagina have atrophied ( wasted away ) and are more sensitive to injury .
A medical evaluation of dyspareunia focuses initially on physical causes , which must be ruled out before psychogenic or emotional causes are considered .	It can have physical or emotional causes .
Dyspareunia is now believed to be one of the first symptoms of a disease called interstitial cystitis ( IC ) .	Painful sexual act may be one of the first symptoms of cystitis ( a bladder infection ) .
In brief , dyspareunia can be classified by the time elapsed since the woman first felt it : Numerous medical causes of dyspareunia exist , and they can be broken down into congenital and acquired causes in this non-comprehensive list : Because there are numerous physical conditions that can contribute to pain during sexual encounters , a careful physical examination and medical history are always indicated with such complaints .	A doctor may be able to identify the cause by doing a careful physical examination and medical history .
In addition to infections and chemical causes of dyspareunia such as monilial organisms and herpes , anatomic conditions , such as hymenal remnants , can contribute to coital discomfort ( Sarrell and Sarrell 1989 ) .	Painful sexual act can also be caused by problems with a woman 's anatomy , like hymenal remnants ( pieces of the hymen that stay in the vagina ) or female genital mutilation , or when the entrance to the vagina has become too small for normal penetration ( Sarrell and Sarrell 1989 ) .
Estrogen deficiency is a particularly common cause of sexual pain complaints related to vaginal atrophy among postmenopausal women and may be a result of similar changes in menstruating women on hormonal birth control .	Atrophy of vagina as a source of painful sexual act is most frequently seen in women after menopause and is generally associated with estrogen deficiency .
In viviparous animals ( which include humans and all other placental mammals ) , the ovum is fertilized inside the female body .	The ovum is fertilized inside the female body , and the embryo then develops inside the uterus , being fed by the mothers placenta .
There is an intermediate form , the ovoviviparous animals : the embryo develops within and is nourished by an egg as in the oviparous case , but then it hatches inside the mother 's body shortly before birth , or just after the egg leaves the mother 's body .	The zygote then develops into an embryo inside the ovule .
Vaccination is the administration of antigenic material ( a vaccine ) to stimulate an individual 's immune system to develop adaptive immunity to a pathogen .	Immunization is when a persons immune system learns to fight an infection .
The immunization was called vaccination because it was derived from a virus affecting cows ( Latin : vacca-cow ) .	The word is derived from the Latin vacca , meaning cow .
The smallpox vaccine was designed in 1796 by the British physician Edward Jenner , although at least six people had used the same principles years earlier .	In 1796 an English doctor , Edward Jenner , noticed something .
People who get an excessive reaction to adsorbed tetanus toxoid may be given the simple vaccine when time for a booster occurs .	It can be children who are too sick with other diseases to get vaccines .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) coordinated this global eradication effort .	All medical organizations around the world , including the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the American Medical Association , the American Academy of Pediatrics , and the United States Centers for Disease Control support vaccination .
Prior to vaccination with cowpox , the only known protection against smallpox was inoculation or variolation ( Variola - the Smallpox viruses ) where a small amount of live smallpox virus was administered to the patient ; this carried the serious risk that the patient would be killed or seriously ill .	He gave a young boy the cowpox virus to protect him from smallpox .
Smallpox used to be a common disease throughout the world and 20 % to 30 % of infected persons died from the disease .	Edward Jenner gave the boy cowpox in the same way people tried to give smallpox .
Vaccines are now used against a wide variety of diseases besides smallpox .	after that vaccines for 28 different types of diseases have been found .
Generically , the process of artificial induction of immunity , in an effort to protect against infectious disease , works by ` priming ' the immune system with an ` immunogen ' .	Vaccination is when a person is given something to make the immune system learn to fight an infectious disease .
In 2000 , the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization was established to strengthen routine vaccinations and introduce new and under-used vaccines in countries with a per capita GDP of under US$ 1000 .	Another word used for using vaccines is immunization .
Vaccinia given after exposure to smallpox , within the first three days , is reported to attenuate the disease considerably , and vaccination up to a week after exposure probably offers some protection from disease or may modify the severity of disease .	This same method using liquid from sores was also used to give people smallpox .
As doctor Byron Plant explains : `` Vaccination is the more commonly used term , which actually consists of a ` safe ' injection of a sample taken from a cow suffering from cowpox ... Inoculation , a practice probably as old as the disease itself , is the injection of the variola virus taken from a pustule or scab of a smallpox sufferer into the superficial layers of the skin , commonly on the upper arm of the subject .	The first vaccination ever was for smallpox .
Such immunizations aim to trigger an immune response more rapidly and with less harm than natural infection .	The body fights infection using the immune system , which is made up of millions of cells including T cells and B cells .
Stimulating immune responses with an infectious agent is known as immunization .	People say immunization to mean the same thing as vaccination .
The outcome of these experiments resulted in further development of vaccination in Europe .	As well as these real side effects of vaccinations , some people believe that vaccines cause other serious problems like autism , brain damage , or diabetes .
Subsequent to this , it has been found that , in people with uncompromised immune systems , four doses of rabies vaccine over 14 days , wound care , and treatment of the bite with rabies immune globulin , commenced as soon as possible after exposure , is effective in preventing the development of rabies in humans .	It can be a person with cancer who does not have a strong immune system .
This produces a more rapid immune response than giving only the Anthrax , which is of some benefit if exposure might be imminent .	If most animals are immune they can not get the disease .
Pregnancy is the fertilization and development of one or more offspring , known as an embryo or fetus , in a woman 's uterus .	A pregnancy can also stop without the baby being born .
This increased immune tolerance in pregnancy can also cause an increased susceptibility to and severity of some infectious diseases .	Doctors can also do things that will cause an abortion to happen .
Early-lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby .	Milk contains a chemical called lactose .
It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food .	Some kind of milks , though , do not have good calcium .
The DSM-IV codes are thus used by mental health professionals to describe the features of a given mental disorder and indicate how the disorder can be distinguished from other , similar problems .	A full DSM diagnosis is also like a common language to mental health professionals .
Top Top Top Top	For example : Antisocial Personality Disorder ; Borderline Personality Disorder .
Skinner invented the operant conditioning chamber , also known as the Skinner Box .	Skinner was the leading behaviorist in psychology ; he built on the work of John B. Watson , and added the idea of operant conditioning .
Some research has found that chocolate , eaten in moderation , can lower blood pressure .	This means that chocolate can be bad for your health , so it is best to eat it in moderation .
From 1855 to 1872 , he published at intervals a series of valuable investigations concerning the perception of color , colour-blindness and color theory , being awarded the Rumford Medal for On the Theory of Colour Vision .	From 1855 to 1872 he did research on color blindness .
Most sexual organisms have two sexes .	Sex may be determined in one of two ways : Where both sexes occur on the same individual , that individual is an hermaphrodite .
Also , while mammals inactivate one of their extra X chromosomes when female , it appears that in the case of Lepidoptera , the males produce double the normal amount of enzymes , due to having two Z 's .	In field crickets , for example , insects with a single X chromosome develop as male , while those with two develop as female .
A sex-determination system is a biological system that determines the development of sexual characteristics in an organism .	Hermaphrodite systems can be found in some animals , for example snails , and in most flowering plants .
In chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension ( WHO Group IV ) , the blood vessels are blocked or narrowed with blood clots .	In pulmonary hypertension , the blood vessels in the lungs become too narrow .
Pathogenesis in pulmonary hypertension owing to left heart disease ( WHO Group II ) is completely different .	Pulmonary hypertension makes the heart sound different .
This leads to a similar pathophysiology as pulmonary arterial hypertension .	The term `` primary pulmonary hypertension '' has now been replaced with `` idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension '' .
Blood BNP level is also being used now to follow progress of patients with pulmonary hypertension .	People with pulmonary hypertension have difficulty breathing .
Evidence of tricuspid insufficiency is also sought and , if present , is consistent with the presence of pulmonary hypertension .	The most common cause of pulmonary hypertension is left heart failure leading to pulmonary venous hypertension .
Instead , the left heart fails to pump blood efficiently , leading to pooling of blood in the lungs .	The sick heart can not pump blood well .
A meta-analysis of Doppler echocardiography for predicting right heart catheterization reported a sensitivity and specificity of 88 % and 56 % , respectively .	This is called heart failure .
There is no obstruction to blood flow in the lungs .	The blood pressure in the lungs becomes high .
In hypoxic pulmonary hypertension ( WHO Group III ) , the low levels of oxygen are thought to cause vasoconstriction or tightening of pulmonary arteries .	Treatment for hypoxic and miscellaneous varieties of pulmonary hypertension have not been established .
A systolic pressure of 40 mm Hg typically implies a mean pressure of more than 25 mm Hg .	If mean pulmonary artery pressure rises above 30 mm Hg ( 4000 Pa ) with exercise , that is also considered pulmonary hypertension .
Again , this leads to a similar pathophysiology as pulmonary arterial hypertension .	In fact all forms of pulmonary arterial hypertension are treatable .
A 1973 meeting organized by the World Health Organization was the first to attempt classification of pulmonary hypertension .	The most common cause of pulmonary hypertension is left heart failure .
This causes pulmonary edema and pleural effusions .	It usually manifests as pulmonary edema .
On the basis of their pathogenesis in humans and animals , the enteroviruses were originally classified into four groups , polioviruses , Coxsackie A viruses ( CA ) , Coxsackie B viruses ( CB ) , and echoviruses , but it was quickly realized that there were significant overlaps in the biological properties of viruses in the different groups .	Enteroviruses are a group of viruses that usually live in the gut of humans and other mammals .
Poliovirus can affect the spinal cord and cause poliomyelitis .	Most do not cause disease there .
Enteroviruses are members of the picornavirus family , a large and diverse group of small RNA viruses characterized by a single positive-strand genomic RNA .	Some members of this group of viruses , such as poliovirus , can sometimes be more dangerous .
Infection can result in a wide variety of symptoms ranging from mild respiratory illness ( common cold ) , hand , foot and mouth disease , acute hemorrhagic conjunctivitis , aseptic meningitis , myocarditis , severe neonatal sepsis-like disease , and acute flaccid paralysis .	They can cause a mild form of meningitis , which is an infection near the brain .
Enteroviruses are a genus of positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses associated with several human and mammalian diseases .	They are viruses made for RNA and there are many different kinds of them .
In turn , it is part of the even broader group of diseases affecting the blood , bone marrow , and lymphoid system , which are all known as hematological neoplasms .	Leukemias are part of a bigger group of diseases , the blood cancers ( hematological neoplasms ) .
Other zoonotic diseases linked to pest rodents include classical swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease .	Not many diseases carried by rats can spread to humans .
Over the years , rats have been used in many experimental studies , which have added to our understanding of genetics , diseases , the effects of drugs , and other topics that have provided a great benefit for the health and well-being of humankind .	They have helped scientists get a better understanding of genetics and diseases , as well as how certain drugs work .
The Black Death is traditionally believed to have been caused by the micro-organism Yersinia pestis , carried by the tropical rat flea ( Xenopsylla cheopis ) which preyed on black rats living in European cities during the epidemic outbreaks of the Middle Ages ; these rats were used as transport hosts .	Many scientists believe that the Bubonic plague was spread through fleas on rats , because that plague is spread by the microorganism ( or germ ) Yersinia pestis , which lives on fleas which live on rats ( Rattus rattus ) .
Rats are frequently blamed for damaging food supplies and other goods , or spreading disease .	Rats can carry diseases .
Tellurium hexafluoride is most commonly prepared by passing fluorine gas over tellurium metal at 150 ° C. Below this temperature a mixture of lower fluorides form , including tellurium tetrafluoride and ditellurium decafluoride .	Cold fluorine gas makes tellurium tetrafluoride .
There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true , correct , precise , or up-to-date .	What is said in the article may not be true , correct , precise or accurate .
A small study demonstrated lower blood pressure in persons who had recently masturbated compared to those with no proximate sexual activity .	A small study has shown that a test group which only had intercourse experienced , as a whole , lower blood pressure in stressful situations than those who had intercourse but also had masturbated for one or more days .
The shaft skin can also be slid back and forth with just the index finger and thumb wrapped around the penis .	You simply wrap your hand around the shaft of your penis and move your hand up and down .
Masturbation aids such as a vibrator , dildo or Ben Wa balls can also be used to stimulate the vagina and clitoris .	Therefore , female masturbation almost always involves stimulating the clitoris , either by hand or with a vibrator .
The prostate gland is one of the organs that contributes fluid to semen .	The main female sex organ is the clitoris .
Ways of masturbating common to members of both sexes include pressing or rubbing the genital area , either with the fingers or against an object such as a pillow ; inserting fingers or an object into the anus ( see anal masturbation ) ; and stimulating the penis or vulva with electric vibrators , which may also be inserted into the vagina or anus .	Objects inserted into the vagina or anus should be clean and should not be able to scratch or break .
Being open about sexual orientation , such as lesbian , gay , bisexual person is a considered a taboo in many parts of Pakistan .	Time and again , various such parties and leaders have said that Pakistan needs to be more open , in public , about sexual orientation and gender identity issues .
The Chauvet Cave is uncharacteristically large and the quality , quantity , and condition of the artwork found on its walls have been called spectacular .	The Chauvet Cave , however , is unusually large and the artwork is well preserved and of good quality .
Less than six months later , on 4 November , Mendelssohn himself died in Leipzig after a series of strokes .	He continued to work and travel as much as he could , but after a stroke in 1849 he died in Leipzig aged 38 .
A congenital disorder , or congenital disease , is a condition existing at birth and often before birth , or that develops during the first month of life ( neonatal disease ) , regardless of causation .	Sometimes doctors can find out that a baby has a congenital disorder before its birth .
The term `` congenital '' disorder does not necessarily refer to a genetic disorder despite the similarity of the words .	Therefore , genetic disorders have grown as a proportion of the total congenital defects .
Several terms are used to describe congenital abnormalities .	The other main type of congenital disorder is caused by an infectious disease being passed from mother to child .
Some disorders can be detected before birth through prenatal diagnosis ( screening ) .	They use prenatal diagnosis and screening tests , such as amniocentesis .
Still , congenital conditions are often classified in a structural basis , organized when possible by primary organ system affected .	There are two main types of congenital defect .
Wilson 's first wife Ellen died on August 6 , 1914 , casting him into a deep depression .	In 1914 , his wife Ellen died of Bright 's Disease .
Wilson had a series of debilitating strokes and had to cancel his trip on September 26 , 1919 .	Wilson ended up having a stroke .
Most pituitary adenomas are microadenomas , and have an estimated prevalence of 16.7 % ( 14.4 % in autopsy studies and 22.5 % in radiologic studies ) .	Most pituitary adenomas are microadenomas .
Their son Daniel was born with Down syndrome in November 1966 ; he was institutionalized and excluded from the Millers ' personal life at Arthur 's insistence .	His son , Daniel , was born with Down Syndrome .
Color blindness , or color vision deficiency , is the inability or decreased ability to see color , or perceive color differences , under normal lighting conditions .	Color blindness is the name for a number of medical conditions , and doctors sometimes call color blindness color vision deficiency .
Some studies conclude that color blind people are better at penetrating certain color camouflages .	However , people who are color blind have an advantage : they are sometimes better at seeing through some types of camouflage .
Color blindness is usually classified as a mild disability , however there are occasional circumstances where it can give an advantage .	Color blindness is usually thought of as a disability .
As progressive phenotypes involve deterioration of the retina and other parts of the eye , certain forms of color blindness can progress to legal blindness , i.e. , an acuity of 6\/60 or worse , and often leave a person with complete blindness .	Inherited forms of color blindness affect the retina only .
And there is also a study suggesting that people with some types of color blindness can distinguish colors that people with normal color vision are not able to distinguish .	People with color blindness can not tell the difference between certain colors , or they may not see colors at all .
Color blindness affects a large number of individuals , with protanopia and deuteranopia being the most common types .	As of 2009 , the word daltonism is used for only one type of color blindness called deuteranopia .
Another factor that may affect color blindness includes a deficiency in Vitamin A. The different kinds of inherited color blindness result from partial or complete loss of function of one or more of the different cone systems .	These types of color blindness usually result from an accident , and are not inherited .
They include problems in discriminating blues from greens and yellows from reds\/pinks , and the rarest forms of all , complete color blindness or monochromacy , where one can not distinguish any color from gray , as in a black-and-white movie or photograph .	Instead they can not tell the difference between blue and green , and also yellow and violet .
There are two major types of color blindness : those who have difficulty distinguishing between red and green , and who have difficulty distinguishing between blue and yellow .	Those affected have trouble telling the difference between red and green .
It is most commonly inherited from mutations on the X chromosome but the mapping of the human genome has shown there are many causative mutations-mutations capable of causing color blindness originate from at least 19 different chromosomes and 56 different genes ( as shown online at the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man ( OMIM ) database at Johns Hopkins University ) .	Most color blindness is heritable , usually as simple Mendelian inheritance .
Total color blindness is much less common than partial color blindness .	Some types of color blindness , but not inherited color blindness , can be cured .
Color blindness affects a significant percentage of the population .	It is also possible that only certain parts of the eye have color blindness ; people may become color blind because of other diseases , but after the disease goes away , see normally again .
Such findings may give an evolutionary reason for the high prevalence of red-green color blindness .	In order to understand color blindness , it is necessary to explain how humans ( and other animals ) can tell the difference between colors .
The most usual cause is a fault in the development of one or more sets of retinal cones that perceive color in light and transmit that information to the optic nerve .	People who suffer from it can only see in black , gray and white : They can perceive only differences in brightness and do not see color .
Monochromacy is the condition of possessing only a single channel for conveying information about color .	This is called monochromacy .
Infants with hypothermia may feel cold when touched , with bright red skin and unusual lack of energy .	When hypothermia begins , a person feels cold , starts shivering and ca n't stop .
It increases blood flow to the body 's skin and extremities , making a person feel warm , while increasing heat loss .	It takes blood away from the skin , hands and feet , and puts it to the brain and important internal organs .
Stem cell treatments may require immunosuppression because of a requirement for radiation before the transplant to remove the patient 's previous cells , or because the patient 's immune system may target the stem cells .	The stem cells ' state , and what the daughter cells turn into , is influenced by signals from other cells in the embryo .
Acephalgic migraine ( also called acephalalgic migraine , migraine aura without headache , amigrainous migraine , isolated visual migraine and optical migraine ) is a neurological syndrome .	An Acephalgic migraine ( also known as a ` Silent migraine ' ) is a kind of migraine without the head pain .
Individuals who experience acephalgic migraines in childhood are highly likely to develop typical migraines as they grow older .	An acephalgic migraine may cause neurologic dysfunction in some people , which is when parts of the brain does not function right , and causes different kinds of problems , such as seeing flashing lights or having blind spots , where nothing can be seen .
It is a relatively uncommon variant of migraine in which the patient may experience aura , nausea , photophobia , hemiparesis and other migraine symptoms but does not experience headache .	Most kinds of migraines start before a person is 30-years-old but this kind of migraine usually starts sometime during middle-age , which is after 40-years-old , and becomes more common as a person gets older .
It is unknown what infection caused the swelling , but pathologists believe it was a virus .	The swelling was probably caused by a virus , and caused an epileptic fit .
In general , hygiene mostly means practices that prevent spread of disease-causing organisms .	Proper hygiene is often taught to children at a young age , and it becomes a habit .
He had an important influence on his students Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka who were instrumental in the founding of Gestalt psychology as well as Kurt Lewin , who was also a part of the Gestalt group and was key in the establishment of experimental social psychology in America .	He had an important influence on Edmund Husserl , the founder of modern phenomenology , as well as Max Wertheimer , Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka , co-founders of Gestalt psychology .
Genocide scholars such as Gregory Stanton have postulated that conditions and acts that often occur before , during , and after genocide-such as dehumanization of victim groups , strong organization of genocidal groups , and denial of genocide by its perpetrators-can be identified and actions taken to stop genocides before they happen .	Genocide is done usually by a group , such as a government , or military group , not by one person or a small number of people .
The McKinleys had two daughters ( both died in childhood ) : President McKinley took great care to accommodate her condition .	McKinley at that time also remembered his wife 's weak condition .
Hemoglobin , the main oxygen-carrying molecule in red blood cells , carries both oxygen and carbon dioxide .	It is made of one carbon and two oxygen atoms .
In older adults , anal fissures may be caused by decreased blood flow to the area .	It 's not completely clear what causes an anal fissure .
An anal fissure or rectal fissure is a break or tear in the skin of the anal canal .	An anal fissure , or fissura ani , is a fissure ( a small wound ) in the skin around the anus .
Surgical procedures are generally reserved for people with anal fissure who have tried medical therapy for at least one to three months and have not healed .	After the anal fissure closes , it takes 6 weeks to 3 months before the wound is healed completely .
For adults , the following may help prevent anal fissures : In infants , frequent diaper change can prevent anal fissure .	These recommendations only make sense if the patient is sure that the problem is an anal fissure .
In infants , once an anal fissure has occurred , addressing underlying causes is usually enough to ensure healing occurs .	The anal fissure can burst open very easily up to 3 months after healing , for example during defecation .
Other common causes of anal fissures include : The incidence of anal fissures is around 1 in 350 adults .	A doctor can prescribe several products to treat the anal fissure .
Local application of medication to relax the sphincter muscle , thus allowing the healing to proceed , was first proposed in 1994 with nitroglycerine ointment , and then calcium channel blockers in 1999 with nifedipine ointment , and the following year with topical diltiazem .	An easy solution to solve this problem is the use of baby ointment ( zinc oxide ointment ) that is used for a baby 's red bottom .
The condition occurs when two parts of a spinal vertebra do not fuse properly while a young pug is still growing , resulting in an irregularly shaped spinal cavity which can put pressure on the spinal cord .	There is also a smutty fawn pug , which has a very dark head and dark forelegs .
Juliet was attempting to restore her fertility .	Juliet is a fertility doctor .
Insulin is a peptide hormone , produced by beta cells in the pancreas , and is central to regulating carbohydrate and fat metabolism in the body .	Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas in the body that controls the glucose level in the blood .
Some patients with type 2 diabetes may eventually require insulin if other medications fail to control blood glucose levels adequately .	So , people with diabetes can take in insulin extracted from pigs instead of producing their own insulin .
On January 11 , 1922 , Leonard Thompson , a 14-year-old diabetic who lay dying at the Toronto General Hospital , was given the first injection of insulin .	They first knew insulin would control diabetes in a person when they injected some insulin into a 14 year old boy named Leonard Thompson who was dying of diabetes .
Over 40 % of those with Type 2 diabetes require insulin as part of their diabetes management plan .	People who can not make insulin in their bodies , or who make it but their body can not use it properly , have the disease diabetes .
In the early 1980s she had a public row with her former friend Allen Ginsberg over his support for child pornography and pedophilia , in which Ginsberg said , `` The right wants to put me in jail , '' and Dworkin responded , `` Yes , they 're very sentimental ; I 'd kill you . ''	In the book Dworkin says that women should have their own homeland like Jews have Israel .
Because sulfonamides displace bilirubin from albumin , kernicterus ( brain damage due to excess bilirubin ) is an important potential side effect of sulfonamide use .	The result was a sulfa craze .
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as sulfates and sulfites , which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides .	Sulfa drugs are still widely used for conditions such as acne and urinary tract infections .
Direct stimulation of the clitoris , G-spot , or both , during anal sex can help some women enjoy the activity and reach orgasm from it .	Anal sex can involve a penis inserted in the anus , oral stimulation of the anus , using fingers for penetration and using different objects for stimulation .
People may experience pleasure from anal sex by stimulation of the anal nerve endings , and orgasm may be achieved through anal penetration - by indirect stimulation of the prostate in men , indirect clitoral\/G-spot stimulation in women , and associated sensory nerves ( especially the pudendal nerve ) .	For women , it can come from indirect stimulation of the clitoral legs\/G-Spot or the cervix .
Anal sex or anal intercourse is generally the insertion and thrusting of the erect penis into a person 's anus , or anus and rectum , for sexual pleasure .	For a man , pleasure can come from the stimulation of the prostate that is found near the anus .
It is often transmitted by animal urine or water containing animal urine coming into contact with breaks in the skin , the eyes , mouth , nose or vagina .	The infection is commonly transmitted to humans by allowing fresh water that has been contaminated by animal urine ( often from rats ) to come in contact with the skin , eyes or with the mucous membranes .
Leptospirosis has many different names including : `` 7-day fever '' , `` harvest fever '' , `` field fever '' , `` canefield fever '' , `` mild fever '' , `` rat catcher 's yellows '' , `` Fort Bragg fever '' , and `` pretibial fever '' .	Leptospirosis ( also known as Weil 's disease , canicola fever , canefield fever , nanukayami fever or seven day fever ) is a bacterial disease .
If the infection causes the person to turn yellow , have kidney failure and bleeding it is then known as Weil 's disease .	It usually causes heart failure , kidney failure or liver failure , and most sufferers die if they are not treated urgently .
There are ten different types of Leptospira that cause disease in humans .	It is caused by spirochaetes of the genus Leptospira .
As the illness progresses , it interferes more and more with the immune system , making the person much more likely to get infections , including opportunistic infections and tumors that do not usually affect people who have working immune systems .	Someone has AIDS if they have HIV and either : If a person gets an `` AIDS-defining illness , '' this is usually a sign that the person has AIDS .
HIV-1 appears to have originated in southern Cameroon through the evolution of SIV ( cpz ) , a simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) that infects wild chimpanzees ( HIV-1 descends from the SIVcpz endemic in the chimpanzee subspecies Pan troglodytes troglodytes ) .	This happened when Simian Immunodeficiency Virus ( SIV ) went from apes or chimpanzees to humans .
There is no cure or vaccine ; however , antiretroviral treatment can slow the course of the disease and may lead to a near-normal life expectancy .	While there are many treatments for HIV\/AIDS , at this point there is no cure .
The disease also has significant economic impacts .	Some AIDS defining illnesses are : The most important way to stop HIV\/AIDS is education .
Opportunistic infections may be caused by bacteria , viruses , fungi and parasites that are normally controlled by the immune system .	Because of this , getting an AIDS-defining illness is a sign that a person 's immune system is seriously damaged .
Prevention of HIV infection , primarily through safe sex and needle-exchange programs , is a key strategy to control the spread of the disease .	But needle exchange programs do more than give people clean needles .
In the early days , the CDC did not have an official name for the disease , often referring to it by way of the diseases that were associated with it , for example , lymphadenopathy , the disease after which the discoverers of HIV originally named the virus .	If someone has HIV they are called HIV positive .
Many individuals develop an influenza-like illness or a mononucleosis-like illness 2-4 weeks post exposure while others have no significant symptoms .	In a person with HIV , getting an AIDS-defining illness signals that the HIV has damaged the immune system badly enough that the person now has AIDS .
Other misconceptions are that any act of anal intercourse between two uninfected gay men can lead to HIV infection , and that open discussion of homosexuality and HIV in schools will lead to increased rates of homosexuality and AIDS .	Many people do not know that condoms and clean needles help stop HIV .
Two main clinical staging systems are used to classify HIV and HIV-related disease for surveillance purposes : the WHO disease staging system for HIV infection and disease , and the CDC classification system for HIV infection .	Safer sex means doing things ( like wearing condoms ) to try not to get pregnant or get sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs or STIs ) like HIV , gonorrhea , and syphilis .
It was originally thought that Escherichia coli , a commonly used laboratory organism , was refractory to transformation .	Transformation did not become routine procedure in laboratories until 1972 when Cohen successfully transformed Escherichia coli by treating the bacteria with calcium chloride .
Potassium iodate may be used to protect against accumulation of radioactive iodine in the thyroid by saturating the body with a stable source of iodine prior to exposure .	Eating potassium iodate makes the thyroid full of nonradioactive iodine and prevents radioactive iodine from going in .
The government of Ireland also , following the September 11 attacks , issued potassium iodate tablets to all households .	It has potassium and iodate ions in it .
Approved by the World Health Organization for radiation protection , potassium iodate ( KIO3 ) is an alternative to potassium iodide ( KI ) , which has poor shelf life in hot and humid climates .	It is also used for radiation protection .
Memory distortion in Alzheimer 's disease is a very common disorder found in older adults .	There are many other facts , which affect memory loss beside advanced age , many disorders such as Alzheimer 's disease , Aphasia , Schizophrenia , Advanced age , and Posttraumatic stress disorder are linked to the loss of memory .
He encountered some health and financial problems in this period , including losing part of a finger in an accident and being partially paralyzed by a stroke .	He was partly paralyzed after a stroke .
Chromatophores are studied by scientists to understand human disease and as a tool in drug discovery .	The nerves that operate the chromatophores are thought to be positioned in the brain in a pattern similar to that of the chromatophores they each control .
Lane died in a hospital in Memphis on September 26 , 2003 of lung-related illnesses .	On Friday , September 23 , 2003 , he died .
Elizabeth Ann `` Lizzie '' Velásquez ( born March 13 , 1989 ) is an American woman whose extremely rare medical condition led her to become an author and motivational speaker .	Lizzie Velasquez is an American woman whose very rare medical condition has led her to become an author and public speaker .
She has some progeroid physical characteristics , such as the pointed nose and already aging skin , but she has additional problems beyond that diagnostic classification .	She has some symptoms seen in progeria , like the pointy nose and aging skin , but she has more medical problems as well but it is not expected to cause her to die .
Elemental antimony as an antimony pill was once used as a medicine .	Yellow antimony is only found at very cold temperatures .
The two vaccines have eradicated polio from most countries in the world , and reduced the worldwide incidence from an estimated 350,000 cases in 1988 to just 223 cases in 2012 .	The two vaccines have eliminated polio from most countries in the world .
